The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, January 24th, 2025 at 9:00 a.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member   Present 
                        (D) MaryAnn Groot, Member               Present 
(R) John C. Adams, Member   Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Jason Hinners from Erie County Prosecutor’s office, Amy Grubbe, 
and Gary Smith 
 
Ms. Groot motioned to approve the minutes from the December 18th regular meeting, with 
Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
 
Alex Jones, director, presented the January bills to the board.  He stated that we have two 
Then and Now Certificates for larger bills, because this time of year we get billed for 
annual contract fees.  The board members reviewed the bills.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to 
approve the bills and the two Then and Now certificates, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All 
board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
For the director’s report, Mr. Jones noted that W2s have been issued.  He also stated that 
there will be a county wide election in May.  Depending on what the ballot looks like, we 
may recommend reduced staffing at certain precincts.  He thinks most of the county will 
have just one issue.  Ms. Groot asked what the issue was.  Mr. Jones replied that it is a 
renewal of a piece of language in the constitution that sunsets in July.     
 
Mr. Jones noted that we need to reschedule our February meeting.  All issues and petitions 
must be certified by February 17th, which is the Monday before our next meeting.  The 
filing deadline for issues and petitions is February 5th.  After some discussion, the board 
members decided to reschedule the meeting for Tuesday, February 11th at 3:00 p.m.  
 
Under new business was voting equipment allocation and PEO allocation for the May 2025 
Special Election.  Mr. Jones recommended the same equipment levels as the November 
election: one Expressvote and one scanner per polling location, except for the locations with 
three precincts, where we would issue two scanners.  We will make a recommendation for 
PEO allocation after the filing deadline, at the next meeting.  Ms. Groot motioned to accept 
this allocation of equipment, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted 
yes; motion carried.   
 
Also under new business was approval of candidate petitions.  Adrienne James, deputy 
director, stated that two candidates filed for a municipal court judge.  Both candidates 
have more than enough valid signatures and completed their petitions correctly.  The 
board reviewed the candidates’ petitions.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the 
petitions, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  The 
candidates approved are as follows:  
 
• Carl J. Kamm III, candidate for Judge of Erie County Municipal Court, Republican 
 
• Michael D. Kaufman, candidate for Judge of Sandusky Municipal Court, 
Republican 
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the ballot name change request for Mr. Kamm to go 
on the ballot as CJ Kamm.  Ms. Groot seconded.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
The last item under new business was approval of issue filings for the May 2025 Special 
Election.  Two subdivisions have filed their resolutions of necessity, resolutions to proceed, 
and auditor’s certificates.  We have submitted the ballot language to the Secretary of State.  
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the issue filings, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All 
board members voted yes; motion carried.  The issues approved are as follows:  
 
Page 1 of 2

• Village of Bay View, additional tax levy, current operating expenses for police 
department, 4 mills, 5 years, commencing in 2025, first due in calendar year 2026 
 
• Vermilion Local School District, bond issue, $47,000,000, 30 years, 3.91 mills, 
commencing in 2025, first due in calendar year 2026 
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if there were any other matters to come before the board.  Mr. Adams 
noted that he and Ms. Crescimano attended a breakout session for medium counties at the 
Winter Conference.  Somebody brought up what people did for the holidays.  The vast 
majority said they shut their offices down.  Mr. Adams stated he brought up what 
happened in our county, without mentioning names or parties, and they were aghast.  We 
failed to do what most of the other counties did.  We would have only given the employees 
six days off, which was in line with everyone else.  No one was concerned about their 
constituents not being served, because everyone understood this is the least busy time for 
Boards of Elections.  
 
Ms. Groot stated that had we done that in 2023, we would not have received the 
correspondence from the person filing an objection to a candidate.  It’s not that she doesn’t 
want to give employees time off; it’s just a matter of closing the whole office.  We’ve 
already come to the terms that during non-election periods, only one member needs to be in 
the office.  To give the employees additional days off, we could have had two employees 
come in one day, and two come in another day.  This way the employees could have gotten 
extra days off, but the office wouldn’t be closed.   
 
Mr. Adams stated he shares the importance of having someone here, but we don’t need to 
have someone here the whole time.  Someone could have come in just to check the mail and 
the messages, and then leave.  People still would have been served.  Ms. Crescimano 
pointed out that Mr. Jones was willing to check the mail last year, so we were able to 
receive the challenge letter.  
 
Mr. Ferrell indicated we would have this issue next year, and we would need to make a 
decision based upon personnel policies.  Mr. Adams stated his purpose is not to be 
combative, but to find out what other counties did and report back.   
 
Mr. Hinners stated we can address this in the personnel policy as to what the policy will be 
regarding time off around the holidays.  He also suggested addressing it before the 
December meeting.  Ms. Crescimano noted we would have the same issue again with 
Columbus Day this year.   
 
Mr. Adams motioned to adjourn, with Ms. Groot seconding.  The board adjourned at 9:20 
a.m.  
 
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2

