The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, September 22nd, 2023 at 9:00 a.m.       
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman   Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member               Present 
                        (R) Nancy C. McKeen, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Jason Hinners from Erie County Prosecutor’s Office, Rachel Ruffer 
from Ohio Secretary of State’s Office, MaryAnn Groot, and Jim Johnson  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the minutes from the following meetings: August 21st 
Official Canvass and Regular Meeting, August 28th Post-Election Audit Meeting, and 
August 30th Special Meeting.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  
 
Alex Jones, Director, presented the bills to the board.  We have both regular monthly bills 
and two bills from the August election that will be paid for with state money.  The board 
members took a few minutes to review.  While reviewing the bills, Mr. Ferrell thanked Mr. 
Monaghan for his service to the board, as this will be his last official meeting as a board 
member.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the bills, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  
All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
For the Director’s Report, Mr. Jones stated that we are sending UOCAVA ballots today for 
the upcoming general election.  There were some slight changes with the wording in Issue 
1, but other than that the ballots remain the same.  We are preparing for early voting, and 
will be fully staffed and ready to go on November 7th.   
 
Mr. Jones stated that Winter Conference is going to take place in January.  We have a 
draft agenda and information on room reservations.  He also stated that staff and board 
members are required to take their cybersecurity training by October 6th.  He said to check 
your email for information on that.  Mr. Jones also stated that the staff would like to wish 
Mr. Monaghan well and thank him for his years of service to the board.   
 
For new business, the board discussed polling location changes for the November 7th 
General Election.  Mr. Jones stated that the new aquatic center is being built near 
Sandusky High School, which limits parking.  The school asked that we consider not using 
the Cultural Center at the back of the high school, which hosts Sandusky H and I.  In the 
past, we used Zion Lutheran Church for those precincts, and the church said they would be 
happy to accommodate us again.   
 
Ms. McKeen stated there is plenty of parking at Zion.  Mr. Jones agreed and said it was a 
better location.  Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated that Sandusky H and I voters 
liked going to Zion, and she thinks they’d be happy to move back.   
 
Next, the board discussed a possible polling location change for the precincts Huron 
Township #1 and #2.  The Huron Township trustees recently sent us a letter which we have 
included with the board members’ agendas.  The trustees are concerned about voters 
blocking the doors where fire equipment is stored and have asked us to consider using 
another location.  However, there are not many centrally located places in Huron 
Township.  Mr. Jones stated that he would rather increase the signage at the township 
building to indicate where voters can and can’t park.  For example, we could put up cones 
or A-frame signs.  If we were to go to another taxpayer funded facility, it would be at least 
10 minutes away.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated it doesn’t make sense to move.  Mr. Monaghan stated that the township 
is required to host us because they take tax-payer money.  Mr. Jones confirmed that was 
correct and said they can’t technically decline our request.   
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

The third possible polling location change was for the precincts Margaretta Township #1 
and #2.  Jim Johnson, who is the mayor of Castalia Village, spoke on this matter.  He stated 
it was brought to their attention that the plan is to have two precincts at the Margaretta 
Township Hall.  He does not have a problem with that, but there is limited parking in 
downtown Castalia.  They changed from angle parking to parallel parking this summer 
and lost two or three spaces.  Also, the parking lot across the street is for the coffee shop.  
 
Mr. Johnson, who is a member of the Lions Club, stated that the Castalia Lions Club has 
offered up their facility.  It is on the north side of Castalia, has ample space, and a ramp.  
He iterated that neither he nor Margaretta Township Fire Chief Tom Johnson have a 
problem with using the township hall; they are just concerned about parking.  We want to 
make every effort to get people out to vote, and if there is limited parking, Mr. Johnson 
thinks that might impact how many people vote, especially if there is bad weather.  He then 
stated that for your consideration, the Lions Club is available.  He also stated that Lions 
Clubs are asked to demonstrate community service.   
 
Ms. Crescimano asked Mr. Jones for his opinion.  He stated that he and Ms. James visited 
the Lions Club last week.  The only thing we could possibly get dinged on is that there is 
not a van accessible parking spot.  That does not mean there can’t be space made for one.  
He also stated that one of the deacons from Grace Lutheran Church called the office and 
said we could come back there.   
 
Mr. Ferrell said he would be okay with trying the Lions Club.  Mr. Johnson said he has no 
problem going to the Lutheran Church, either.  Ms. Crescimano said that 2023 is a good 
time to try the Lions Club, not 2024 when it will be extremely busy.  She then asked Ms. 
James for her opinion.   
 
Ms. James stated that her recommendation is to stay at Grace Lutheran Church because 
they have better parking.  The Lions Club has parking on the grass, but they don’t have 
strips on the pavement.  If you are in a wheelchair and driving an accessible van, parking 
on the grass might not be a good idea.  Ms. James stated she is grateful the Lions Club is 
offering their facilities and that the interior is great, but the parking is what concerns her.   
 
Mr. Johnson agreed that the parking at the church was better, and stated he was not 
advocating for one or the other.  Mr. Ferrell stated that everyone who would be going to 
the Lions Club already knows there’s no parking lines.  Ms. Crescimano stated that ADA is 
what concerns her, especially with the elderly.  She said that you never know what the 
weather is going to be in November.  Mr. Ferrell asked how many voters in wheelchairs 
voted at the church.  Staff stated they were not sure.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked if one precinct could be at one location and another precinct be at a 
second location, or if that would require more personnel.  Mr. Jones stated we would hire 
the same number of people, but we would need more equipment.  Ms. James stated it’s 
been our goal over the past few years to consolidate polling locations because it’s better for 
the poll workers.   
 
Mr. Jones asked Ms. James to walk the board through the oversight for ADA compliance.  
Ms. James stated that the SOS office provides a very long checklist to use every time you 
assess a new polling location.  You’re supposed to have so many disability parking spaces 
depending on how many overall parking spaces there are.  If there aren’t any disability 
parking spaces, you can make one with temporary signage.  However, Ms. James is not 
sure where we would put the temporary signage at the Lions Club.  People park in the 
grass in the back of the building, but the ramp is in the front.   
 
Ms. McKeen stated that for parking, she would agree with Adrienne.  Mr. Ferrell said,

grass in the back of the building, but the ramp is in the front.   
 
Ms. McKeen stated that for parking, she would agree with Adrienne.  Mr. Ferrell said, 
“whatever you folks think is best.”  Mr. Johnson stated he did not have a problem with the 
church.  The issue last November was that a political sign was a bit too close to the 
building.  Mr. Johnson and the pastor moved the sign so it was in compliance, and 
everything was fine.   
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the following polling locations: Zion Lutheran 
Church for Sandusky H and I, the Huron Township Building for Huron Township #1 and 
#2, and Grace Lutheran Church for Margaretta Township #1 and #2.  Mr. Monaghan 
seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Mr. Jones stated that Kathryn Drewyor wrote a statement withdrawing as a write-in 
candidate for Huron City Schools Board of Education.  Mr. Monaghan motioned to accept 
her withdrawal as a candidate.  Ms. Crescimano seconded the motion.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to accept the listed candidates’ petitions for the March 19th, 
2024 Primary Election.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board members voted 
yes; motion carried.  The approved candidates are as follows:  
 
• Patrick J. Shenigo, County Commissioner, FTC 1/2/25, Republican 
• Mathew R. Old, County Commissioner, FTC 1/3/25, Republican 
• Paul A. Sigsworth, Sheriff, Democrat 
• Thomas E. Beck, County Engineer, Republican 
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to accept the name change request from Mathew R. Old to 
appear on the ballot as Matt Old.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
There being no other matters to come before the board, Mr. Monaghan motioned to 
adjourn, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 9:27 a.m.  
 
 
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

