The official certification/regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections 
was called to order by Board Member William Monaghan at 9 a.m. on Wednesday, May 
19th, 2021.  
 
 Roll Call:      (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Absent (excused) 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Amy Grubbe 
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that we are here to certify the results of the May Primary/Special 
Election.  Adrienne James, Deputy Director, passed around the paperwork for the board 
members to sign.  Motion to certify the results of the election was made by Mr. Smith, 
seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.    
 
Motion to approve the board meeting minutes from April 23 and May 3 and 4 was made by 
Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Next on the agenda was to pay the bills.  Lori Salyers, director, explained to the board 
members why they are now going to see more “Then and Now” certificates.  She stated that 
she was no longer encumbering money because not doing so makes for a cleaner ledger.  
However, because she is no longer encumbering, anytime there is a bill for over $5,000, the 
board must sign a then and now certificate.  The board members took a few minutes to 
look over the bills and sign the two then and now certificates.  Motion to pay the bills was 
made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Next, Ms. James stated that there would be no August special election in Erie County this 
year.  She updated the board meeting schedule to reflect that, and updated the schedule on 
the website.  
 
Ms. James then stated that the office received two petitions for Huron City Council.  One 
was from James Joseph Dike, and the other was from Matthew Grieves.  She stated that 
both petitions were filled out correctly, and both had more than enough valid signatures.  
She also stated that both of them filled out name changes forms.  Mr. Dike would like to go 
on the ballot as Joe Dike, while Mr. Grieves would like to go on the ballot as Matt Grieves.  
The board took a few moments to review the petitions.  Motion to approve the petitions was 
made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Motion to approve the 
name changes was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Ms. Salyers then gave an update on the dropbox.  She stated that after the last meeting, 
Mr. Krabill went to look at it and had some concerns.  The lid is bent, so it doesn’t open 
nicely, and when you put a ballot inside, it doesn’t easily drop down.  Someone could put 
their ballot inside, and then the next person could come along and the first person’s ballot 
could just be lying there.  Mr. Krabill asked Ms. Salyers to call the company and see if we 
can get a dropbox that is more like the one at the library.  She can, but they are about 400 
dollars more.  She included the paperwork with pictures in the board members’ folders.  
She also boxed up the old one so that we could return it.  Mr. Smith asked if we could get a 
refund on the old one.  Ms. Salyers stated yes, but that it would probably cost a lot to ship it 
back.   
 
Mr. Smith then asked if there had been any more discussion on the dropbox.  Ms. Salyers 
stated that the commissioners were adamant they wanted it by the water department box.  
Mr. Smith stated no, he meant discussion in the legislature.  Eliza Link, Clerk, stated that 
she put an email from Aaron Ockerman of the Ohio Association of Election Officials 
(OAEO) in the board members’ folders, which summarizes the election bill the legislatures 
are considering.  She stated the bill does not eliminate dropboxes; it would just limit the 
number of dropboxes per county.  Mr. Krabill asked if when we get the new one, if the old

are considering.  She stated the bill does not eliminate dropboxes; it would just limit the 
number of dropboxes per county.  Mr. Krabill asked if when we get the new one, if the old 
one would remain in the lobby.  Ms. Salyers stated no; the old one would go in the 
basement to store our backup servers.   
 
Page 1 of 4

Mr. Smith asked where we were at with cameras for the dropbox and what the cost would 
be.  Ms. Salyers stated that the cost would probably be double, if not more, than what we 
had anticipated when the dropbox was scheduled to go at the north end.  Mr. Smith 
suggested talking to the commissioners to see if their staff could run the lines for the 
cameras.  He said that might be cheaper.  Mr. Krabill stated he could talk to the 
commissioners.  Motion to order the new dropbox and get a refund for the old one was 
made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  Mr. Smith then stated that, 
regarding the cameras, he would propose that we hold off on them until we can get an 
answer from the commissioners, and then we can discuss at the next board meeting.  Ms. 
Salyers reminded the board members that the issue needs to be resolved soon.  She stated 
that when she asked the SOS office when we should have gotten the dropbox, their 
response was “before you came here.”  She said it should have been done by this past 
election, and it needs to be done by November.   
 
Next, Ms. Salyers gave an update on the date/time stamp.  She stated that the current one 
only goes through 2021.  We can get a new date wheel from Accurate, or, because the 
machine sometimes gives us trouble, we could order a brand new machine.  Mr. Smith 
asked how many years the new date wheel would have.  Ms. Salyers stated she was not 
sure.  Ms. Link stated that the current one started at 2010, so you get about 11 years.  She 
also stated that the second machine starts at 2014, and goes until 2025.  Mr. Monaghan 
suggested revisiting the issue in January.  Mr. Smith stated that the office should consider 
purchasing a manual date stamper, in case both of them go down.   
 
Next, Ms. Link asked about sending campaign finance reminders to PACs.  According to 
the Campaign Finance division of the SOS office, BOEs are not required to send notices to 
PACs, because it is up to the PAC’s treasurer to know when reports are due.  Mr. 
Monaghan asked how other counties handled this issue.  Ms. Salyers responded that she 
was not sure.  Mr. Smith asked how many PACs we send notices to.  Ms. Link responded 
that it depends on what is on the ballot, but that all together, we have 28 PACs.  Mr. 
Krabill stated that he realizes we don’t have an obligation to send the notices, but he thinks 
it’s a nice thing we do to keep people informed.  He also stated that if we send the notices 
and the treasurers still fail to file, we can at least say that we notified them.  He also stated 
that continuing to send the notices avoids problems.  Mr. Monaghan agreed.  The staff 
stated that they would continue to send the notices.   
 
Ms. Salyers then gave an update on the budget.  She stated that the finance department 
asked her to work on a proposed budget for 2022 and return it to them by June 10.  She 
based it on 2018, which was the year of the last governor’s race.  She stated that for this 
year’s budget, we would likely be short, and that we will probably have to move money 
around.   
 
Ms. Salyers then explained the type of money we can expect to pay various vendors for 
software maintenance and support.  She stated that Triad would be $33,000, Knowink 
would be $20,000, ES&S would be $26,000, and Netpoint would be $14,000.  She stated that 
this year she used HAVA money to pay for Netpoint, but that next year the county would 
have to pay for it.  She also explained that this year she hasn’t paid anything out of 
software maintenance and support, because she was paying for those sorts of things out of 
contract services.  However, she recently contacted the auditor’s office, who informed her 
that the previous director only paid poll workers out of contract services.   
 
Mr. Krabill asked what the finance department is proposing.  Ms. Salyers replied that they 
are not proposing anything; she is just telling them what she thinks the office will need next

Mr. Krabill asked what the finance department is proposing.  Ms. Salyers replied that they 
are not proposing anything; she is just telling them what she thinks the office will need next 
year.  She is estimating $95,000 for software maintenance and support, which she knows 
they will have a “heart attack” over.  Mr. Krabill responded that there is a reason we are 
asking for so much money, though.  He stated that the SOS office puts demands on us that 
we have to meet.  Mr. Smith also pointed out that the commissioners made us get our own 
IT group instead of using the county IT department.  Mr. Monaghan stated that the county 
reabsorbs any leftover funds at the end of the year, and Ms. Salyers confirmed that was 
correct.  
 
Page 2 of 4

Ms. Salyers then stated that she recently spoke with Ed Widman of the finance department.  
He told her that this year’s budget was decided when she was out on medical leave.  Ms. 
Salyers informed Mr. Widman that she thinks the office will be short this year.  Mr. 
Widman replied that in June we could come and ask them for more money if we need it.   
 
Mr. Smith asked when the bills for Triad, ES&S, and Knowink are due, and how much we 
have paid so far this year.  Ms. Salyers stated she was not sure and that she would have to 
look through all the bills.  There was then some cross talk about the budget this year versus 
the budget next year.  Mr. Krabill reminded the board members that two different 
conversations are happening here.  Mr. Monaghan asked Ms. Salyers to report at the next 
meeting the full list of vendors that have been paid so far.  Mr. Smith asked her to report 
how short we are this year for paying Triad, ES&S, and Knowink.  Ms. Salyers stated that 
she would have that at the next meeting.  Mr. Smith made a comment about paying 
Netpoint, but Ms. Salyers iterated that we used HAVA money for that this year.   
 
Mr. Smith stated that for the 2022 budget, we should shoot high.  Ms. Salyers commented 
on how expensive the various vendors (Triad, ES&S, and Knowink) are.  Mr. Smith stated 
that at the conference in June, maybe we could look into getting new vendors.  Ms. Salyers 
responded that that would involve buying new equipment, and that would be tens of 
thousands of dollars.   
 
Mr. Krabill then stated that the other side of the paper for the 2022 budget projection was 
all personnel costs.  Mr. Smith commented that there was a large projection for comp time 
payout, and that he thought we were going to burn that down.  Ms. Salyers reminded him 
that last year she did not receive a comp time payout, but the other employees did.  Ms. 
James told Mr. Smith that now that the election is certified, there is no longer a 
requirement of one D and one R in the office, so staff can take time more time off.   
 
Next on the agenda was to discuss the open Democratic clerk position.  Ms. Salyers stated 
that since we ran the ad a second time, we received two more applications.  She stated that 
she would give copies of the applications to Mr. Monaghan.  Mr. Monaghan stated that he 
hoped to get together with Mr. Ferrell soon to conduct interviews.  Mr. Smith suggested it 
might be helpful for Ms. James to be present for the interviews as well.   
 
Ms. Salyers then asked the board members if it was okay to send the 2022 budget 
projection to Finance, and then talk about the 2021 budget at the next board meeting.  The 
board members agreed that that was fine.  Mr. Smith stated to tell Finance that that we 
may get money from the SOS next year to offset the costs, but right now we have to assume 
that we won’t.  Mr. Krabill also suggested that Ms. Salyers lead with the fact that she 
decreased spending in one category.  Ms. Salyers stated that in the software maintenance 
and support category, though, she asked for an increase of $80,000.  Mr. Smith responded 
that when the decision was made not to use the county IT department and instead contract 
it out, then that is what happens.  Ms. Salyers commented that she was told by one of the 
commissioners that they never told us to get our own IT.  They only wanted us to obtain 
our own IT to get us through that security directive.  Ms. Salyers responded that that was 
not her understanding, and that was not the understanding of the county IT department, 
either.  Mr. Smith stated that IT is never going to go away for us.  It’s only going to get 
more and more expensive.  Mr. Krabill stated that there aren’t a lot of vendors, either.  
The staff agreed that Netpoint does a good job, though.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated that we have been having server troubles, so Netpoint is coming next

The staff agreed that Netpoint does a good job, though.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated that we have been having server troubles, so Netpoint is coming next 
Tuesday to work on them.  Netpoint asked if Cyber Defenses sold us used equipment.  Ms. 
Salyers told Netpoint that she was not sure, because she was not here when Cyber Defenses 
did work for us.  She also explained that Netpoint will tear down the servers, wipe them 
clean, and reload everything back on.  They have to do this because due to the server 
problems, we have to shut them down and reboot them nearly every day.  Mr. Krabill 
stated that if we did get used equipment, the potential is that there is software that still 
lingers that may not show up in a list of files.  Ms. Salyers stated that Netpoint said fixing 
the servers would be “quite a job,” which she took to mean it would be very expensive.  
However, we have to get it done.  Mr. Monaghan asked Ms. Salyers to let him know when 
Netpoint arrives on Tuesday.  
Page 3 of 4

Mr. Monaghan then asked if there was anything else.  The staff said there was not.  Mr. 
Smith made a motion to go into executive session for personnel matters, and Mr. Krabill 
seconded.  Ms. Grubbe asked if she could ask a few questions before the board went into 
executive session.  Mr. Smith stated that there was already a motion pending, but that he 
will withdraw it.  Ms. Grubbe asked that Mr. Ferrell’s absence be marked as excused in the 
minutes.  Ms. James stated it would be.   
 
Ms. Grubbe then asked, as far as the wiring for the dropbox cameras, would it go from the 
brick building to this building?  Ms. Salyers stated yes.  Ms. Grubbe stated the whole thing 
doesn’t make sense, why the dropbox won’t be put on the north end of the building.  Mr. 
Monaghan agreed, and stated he’d rather have the box at the north end.  Ms. Link stated 
that we all would.  Mr. Monaghan asked if a final decision had been made.  Ms. Salyers 
replied that the commissioners want it by the water department box.  Mr. Monaghan 
suggested getting ahold of the SOS office.  Ms. Salyers stated that when she talked to the 
SOS office, they said they do not want to be involved in the placement of the box.  They 
said it was between the board and the commissioners; they just want it outside.  Mr. 
Monaghan then expressed concerns with the security of the ballots if the box is next to the 
water department box.  Ms. Salyers reminded him that the prosecutor’s office said that was 
okay, though.   
 
Ms. Grubbe then made a comment on the wiring, and that the cost of it is “absolutely 
ludicrous.”  Mr. Smith stated that’s why we need to ask the commissioners if they’ve got 
people who will do the wiring for us.  Mr. Monaghan stated that it makes no sense to him 
other than they want to be contrary to us.  He also stated that he’d like to make an issue 
with what we’re doing here and why we’re spending taxpayer money.  Ms. Grubbe 
expressed her opinion that this should be in the newspaper.  She stated that all four board 
members and all staff members should be going up there, not just one.  She also stated that 
this was a safety issue.   
 
Motion to go into executive session for personnel matters was made by Mr. Smith, 
seconded by Mr. Krabill.  A roll call vote was taken.  
 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes. 
 
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 10:00 a.m.  
 
Motion to return to regular session was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  
Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 10:10 a.m.  
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 10:11 a.m.  
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 4

