The pre-election meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, August 7th, 2023 at 11:00 a.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member               Present 
                        (R) Nancy C. McKeen, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Jason Hinners from Prosecutor’s Office, MaryAnn Groot, Amy 
Grubbe, and Michael Printy 
 
Alex Jones, Director, gave a summary of absentee voting.  He stated we had a busy early 
voting season.  The total number of requests we received was 5,922.  30 of those were 
problem applications for which we were unable to send ballots in the mail.  Early, in office 
voters accounted for the majority of voters at 4,453.  We mailed over 1,300 ballots.  We still 
have a few left to scan, but we will scan them before tomorrow night.  Mr. Jones also noted 
the numbers on the report do not include any ballots that were returned today.  The report 
is current until Sunday at 5:00 p.m.  
 
The next item on the agenda was a review of overvoted absentee ballots.  Mr. Jones stated 
that the scanner deemed one mail-in ballot to be unreadable.  He and Adrienne James, 
Deputy Director, remade the ballot how they believed the voter intended to vote.  He then 
asked the board to review the remade ballot and decide.   
 
The board members took a few moments to review the ballot.  Ms. McKeen stated it looked 
like a yes vote, but she was not positive.  Mr. Monaghan stated it was hard to tell what the 
voter’s intention was.  Ms. Crescimano stated if we’re not sure, we shouldn’t count it.  Ms. 
Crescimano made a motion to not count the remade ballot, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  
All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. Grubbe stated she would be the observer tomorrow for the group “One Person, One 
Vote.”  Ms. Crescimano motioned to recess until tomorrow, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  
All board members voted yes; motion carried.  Board recessed at 11:06 a.m.  Mr. Ferrell 
administered the observer oath to Ms. Grubbe.   
 
On Tuesday, August 8th at 7:03 p.m., the board reconvened.  Guests present were Amy 
Grubbe and MaryAnn Groot.  Ms. James stated there is one overvoted ballot for the board 
to review, but it isn’t a true overvote.  The ballot was ripped, so the scanner would not scan 
it.  The board members reviewed the ballot that Mr. Jones and Ms. James remade.  Ms. 
Crescimano motioned to accept the remade ballot, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All 
board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
At 7:30 p.m., the polls closed.  Mr. Jones and Ms. James checked the dropbox at that time, 
then uploaded the absentee results.  As the memory sticks returned from the election day 
polling locations, they uploaded election day results, too.   
 
At 10:50 p.m., Ms. James reviewed Erie County’s unofficial results.  The number of Yes 
votes was 9,196.  The number of No votes was 12,147.  Voter turnout was 40.14%.  The 
board members, director, and deputy signed the Unofficial Results Certification Page to 
email to the Secretary of State’s office.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to adjourn, with Mr. 
Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 
10:52 p.m.  
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
Page 1 of 1

