The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
board member William Monaghan at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, October 22nd, 2021.    
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Absent (excused) 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Rachel Mullen from SOS office, Amy Grubbe, and Mary Ann Groot 
 
Mr. Monaghan stated we need a motion to pay the bills.  Mr. Krabill asked if there was 
anything unusual or exciting with the bills this month.  Lori Salyers, Director, stated that 
we were able to save some money by buying supplies from a different source.  For example, 
she bought 18 packs of post-it notes for $13.  Had she bought a pack of 24 from Seagate, it 
would have cost $50.  Ms. Salyers also showed the board members some reports from the 
finance department regarding our accounts.  She stated that she took all the money in the 
training account and placed it in the account to pay poll workers.  Mr. Smith asked how we 
were doing with poll workers.  Ms. Salyers responded that we were doing well.   
 
Motion to pay the bills was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to approve the minutes from the September 24th meeting was made by Mr. Smith, 
seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Next on the agenda was an update on early and absentee voting.  Adrienne James, Deputy 
Director, stated that so far, 1,113 ballots have been mailed out, and 524 have been returned 
for counting.  773 voters have voted early, in-office.  47 ballots have been hand-carried, 
with 24 of those returned for counting.  86 nursing home ballots have been delivered, and 
seven military and overseas ballots have been delivered as well.  Ms. James also stated that 
she and Ms. Salyers started scanning but not tabulating absentee ballots, and so far the 
numbers match perfectly with the numbers in our voter registration system.   
 
Mr. Smith asked how we were doing with the Ohio Veterans Home.  Ms. James stated that 
she contacted Naomi Twine to remind her to turn in the absentee ballot applications for the 
residents.  Ms. Twine stated they were working on it and would submit the applications 
soon.  If the residents live in the independent living area, they can come here to vote early, 
or come here on Election Day to vote in the basement.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked how we were doing with moving the Vermilion polling location for 
Vermilion 3-A and 3-B.  Ms. Salyers responded that we weren’t moving the location for 
this election because it is too late.  Mr. Smith asked if there was any progress on moving the 
location for next election.  Ms. Salyers stated she called the mayor and he said he would get 
back to her.  She has not heard back from him yet, but she will contact him again sometime 
after this election.  Mr. Smith commented on how the location keeps being moved, and that 
the Vermilion fire station would be an ideal location.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked if there were any other matters to come before the board.  Ms. 
Grubbe stated she had a couple of questions.  She asked if there were going to be signs up 
at the polling locations regarding mask wearing.  Ms. Salyers responded no, because masks 
are not mandated by the county.  Ms. Grubbe asked what if people are not vaccinated.  Ms. 
Salyers stated there still won’t be signs.  She also stated that we can’t ask people whether or 
not they’re vaccinated due to HIPAA.  Ms. Grubbe asked if there was going to be a sign 
just saying it’s recommended.  Ms. Salyers stated she didn’t think the SOS office sent 
anything out like that.  
 
Mr. Smith stated he knows the judges have mandated masks in courtrooms, but as far as 
mask wearing at the polling locations, that mandate has to come from the SOS office.  Ms.

Mr. Smith stated he knows the judges have mandated masks in courtrooms, but as far as 
mask wearing at the polling locations, that mandate has to come from the SOS office.  Ms. 
Grubbe asked if there were going to be masks available at the polling locations.  Ms. 
Salyers stated yes.  Ms. Grubbe asked what other protective equipment would be provided.  
Ms. Salyers stated masks, hand sanitizer, disinfectant wipes, alcohol wipes, and gloves.   
 
Page 1 of 3

Ms. Grubbe then asked where we were with the dropbox.  Mr. Monaghan replied that 
we’re where we were the last time we met.  Ms. Grubbe asked if anyone was going to go 
upstairs and speak with the commissioners.  Mr. Monaghan replied that we have 
communicated with the commissioners more than once in reference to the dropbox.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated that, as he understands it, county personnel came by to pick up the 
dropbox and place it where the commissioners want it, but that did not happen.  Ms. 
Salyers replied that she could not allow that to happen, because according to Sue Brown 
from the prosecutor’s office, the board has to vote on it, and they have not done so yet.   
 
Mr. Smith stated, “Let’s take care of that now.  I’m going to make a motion that we turn 
the dropbox over to the county commissioners for them to install it and in the process of 
turning it over to the county commissioners we provide them the information from the 
Secretary of State regarding the handicap accessibility.  From there they’ll install it and 
make their judgement.  It’s their property.  When we give them the box, we give them the 
report.  That’s my motion.”  
 
Mr. Krabill seconded the motion.  Mr. Monaghan stated he thinks we need to clarify where 
we want the box to make it ADA accessible.  He stated that we had the SOS ADA 
coordinator do an assessment, and where the commissioners want the box is not ADA 
compatible.   
 
Mr. Smith responded that in his review of the communication from the SOS office, it didn’t 
say the box has to go a certain place.  The report said ADA is a factor, but not the deciding 
factor.  He stated we should give the commissioners the report, and then they can make a 
decision.   
 
Mr. Monaghan replied that the county commissioners do not run the Board of Elections.  
Our board should be saying where we want that box, not the county commissioners.  Mr. 
Smith stated he has no problem amending his motion to include a caveat that Bill 
Monaghan, a member of the Board of Elections, recommends that the commissioners put 
the box on the north end.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated you should not be putting something up that is not ADA compatible.  
That just does not make any sense.  Mr. Smith responded that if the commissioners do 
place the box in a non-accessible spot, then the ramifications of that falls on them.  
 
Mr. Monaghan asked if Ms. Salyers would poll the board.  Ms. Salyers stated yes.  Mr. 
Smith asked Mr. Monaghan, “Do you want me to amend the motion to include your 
preference that the box be on the north side?”  Mr. Monaghan stated that would be good.   
 
Mr. Smith stated he amends his motion, and that in doing so, we add that Board Member 
Bill Monaghan’s preference is the north side.  Mr. Monaghan asked “And if it’s not ADA 
accessible, then what?”  Mr. Krabill stated that would be for the commissioners to sort out.  
Ms. Salyers then polled the board.   
 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes.  
 
Motion carried.  
 
Ms. Grubbe stated she had a question.  Does the motion mean that all three board 
members are in agreement that the box needs to be placed on the north end?  Mr. 
Monaghan stated that he’s saying we should go by the recommendation from the SOS.  If 
the commissioners go against the SOS office, there’s nothing we can do about it.   
 
Ms. Salyers asked the board members if they wanted her to contact Gary Weilnau in 
facilities to place the box where the commissioners want it.  Mr. Monaghan stated that he 
thinks we need to let the commissioners know exactly what our motion was.   
 
Page 2 of 3

Mr. Krabill stated the new box would not be installed by Election Day.  Mr. Smith stated 
he did not want it installed by then, because he does not want any confusion.  Mr. 
Monaghan stated there would be plenty of time after the election.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated that once Ms. James is finished with the minutes, she will send a copy of 
the minutes and the SOS report to the commissioners.  Mr. Monaghan stated to call the 
administrator upstairs and let him know exactly what was said after we get the minutes 
processed and we’ll go from there.   
 
Mr. Monaghan then made a motion to go into executive session to discuss board personnel.  
Mr. Smith seconded the motion.  A roll call vote was taken.   
 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
 
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 9:16 a.m.  
 
Motion to return to regular session was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  
Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 9:28 a.m.  
 
Mr. Krabill asked about comparing turnout this election to past elections.  Ms. James 
stated that if you go on our website, click on Absentee Reporting, and then choose the last 
like election, which was November 2019, you can get a sense of how this election compares 
to past elections.  The board members then took a few moments to speculate about turn-out 
this year.   
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 9:30 a.m.  
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

