The special meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Tuesday, October 11th, 2022 at 11:00 a.m.    
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Rachel Ruffer from SOS Office 
 
The topic of the meeting was compensation for precinct election officials, or PEOs, working 
in 2023.  Lori Salyers, Director, wrote a letter to the county commissioners, letting them 
know we are proposing an increase in pay for PEOs from $110 a day to $130 a day next 
year.  The commissioners returned the letter saying they voted to disapprove the raise.    
 
Mr. Krabill explained that the commissioners voted in error.  They thought we were 
proposing as increase for this year, not next year.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated she spoke with Hank Solowiej, County Administrator, this morning.  
Mr. Solowiej confirmed that the commissioners voted in error, as they thought the 
proposed raise was for this year, not next year.  Ms. Salyers told Mr. Solowiej that it is very 
hard to recruit poll workers, and pay is a factor.  The current pay of $110 a day for 14 
hours of work is only $7.86 per hour.  Meanwhile, the Lorain County Board of Elections is 
advertising on the radio that PEOs receive $200 in their county.   
 
Mr. Solowiej asked Ms. Salyers about the miscellaneous fees she referenced in her letter.  
Ms. Salyers explained this is in reference to training pay, mileage pay, and rideback pay.  
Mr. Solowiej asked if we planned to raise the pay for those categories.  Ms. Salyers stated 
the board has not discussed it yet, but if they do decide to raise it, we will put that in our 
proposed budget.  Mr. Solowiej asked Ms. Salyers that the next time we write a letter 
proposing in an increase in pay for PEOs, to please cite the relevant ORC.  
 
Mr. Krabill stated that based on the feedback he received, he thinks we won’t have a 
problem raising the PEO pay.  The commissioners stated they were very big on us going 
through the budget process, and that is our intent.  Mr. Ferrell stated that we always go 
through the budget process.  Mr. Ferrell then asked Ms. Salyers if she spoke with someone 
at the SOS office regarding PEO pay.  Ms. Salyers stated she spoke with Alice at the SOS 
office, who informed her that the letter we write to the commissioners is not to ask for 
permission; it is simply to inform the commissioners of our intent.   
 
Mr. Smith stated that when we work on next year’s budget, we should budget for a 
Primary Election, an August Election, and the November election.  Ms. Salyers stated she 
would do that based on what happened this year.  Mr. Ferrell asked if there would be any 
other elections next year.  Ms. Salyers stated yes.  Mr. Smith asked if it was the special 
election for the proposed Sandusky City charter amendment.  Ms. Salyers stated yes.  Mr. 
Smith asked if that could just be part of the Primary Election; Ms. Salyers stated no.  She 
also stated she was not sure how much she could reveal on the charter amendment issue 
without legal counsel being present.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if Sandusky city would have to pay for the election.  Mr. Smith stated 
yes, but they would pay after the fact.  Ms. Salyers confirmed that was correct.  She also 
stated we need to wait to hear from Sandusky city before we officially declare the Special 
Election.  
 
Motion to go into executive session to discuss personnel issues, specifically compensation, 
pursuant to ORC 121.22(G)(1), was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 11:15 a.m.  
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2

Motion to leave executive session and return to regular session was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board resumed regular session at 
11:40 a.m.  
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 11:40 a.m.  
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2

