The recount, post-election audit, and special meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections 
was called to order by Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, August 29th, 2022 at 9:00 
a.m.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Absent 
 
Guests in attendance: Rachel Ruffer from SOS office, Amy Grubbe, Patricia Kraft, and 
Bill Parmentar 
 
The race to be recounted was Republican State Central Committee Woman, 13th District.  
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated that the board members would need to randomly 
select precincts to hand recount equal to at least five percent of the ballots cast in that race.  
The board members chose the precinct Huron D, in which 45 Republican ballots were cast 
and the precinct Vermilion 3-A, in which 22 Republican ballots were cast.  This equals 67 
ballots.  Five percent of the ballots cast in this race equals 48, so 67 is more than enough.   
 
Motion to recess until 12:00 p.m. was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  
Motion carried.  Board recessed at 9:03 a.m.  
 
While in recess, the bipartisan BOE staff conducted the hand recount of the two precincts 
selected.  The hand recount matched exactly with the numbers from the official canvass.   
 
After the hand recount, the Director and Deputy Director tested the high-speed scanner.  
They then ran all ballots cast for this race through the high-speed scanner.   
 
Motion to exit recess and return to regular session was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by 
Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 12:00 p.m.   
 
Ms. James stated that the results of the recount match exactly with the results of the official 
canvass.  Jean Anderson received 476 votes, while Patty Stein received 399 votes.  Ms. 
James stated she would email the results of the recount to Lorain County, since they are 
the most populous county for this race.   
 
Motion to accept the results of the recount was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to recess was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
Board recessed at 12:04 p.m.  
 
While in recess, the bipartisan BOE staff conducted the post-election audit.  They audited 
the following Election Day voting machines, which were randomly chosen by the board 
members at the last meeting:  
• Ritter Public Library DS200 
• Berlin Heights Municipal Building DS200 
• Berlin Township Fire Station DS200 
 
The following contested races were audited:  
• Republican State Central Committee Man, 13th District 
• Republican State Senator, 13th District 
• Republican State Representative, 54th District 
 
Motion to exit recess and return to regular session was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded 
by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 12:41 p.m.  
 
Ms. James stated that the results of the post-election audit match perfectly with the results 
of the official canvass.   
 
 
Page 1 of 3

Motion to accept the results of the audit was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  A roll call vote was taken.  
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
 
Motion carried.  The board members, the director, and the deputy director signed the 
audit paperwork to submit to the SOS office.   
 
Motion to approve the minutes from the August 15th meeting was made by Mr. Monaghan, 
seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Next on the agenda was “any other matters to come before the board.”  Ms. Grubbe stated 
she had a follow-up question from the last meeting regarding the Ohio Veterans Home.  
Mr. Ferrell asked if they were interested in having us again.  Ms. Grubbe stated yes.  She 
also stated that the OVH did not expect the polling location change to the basement of the 
County Service Center to be permanent.  Mr. Ferrell asked who we should contact.  Ms. 
Grubbe stated she spoke with Kimberly Lewallen, who works with the OVH 
Superintendent.  
 
Mr. Ferrell asked BOE staff to contact Ms. Lewallen.  Lori Salyers, Director, stated that 
she spoke with the OVH administrator, and they were not interested in hosting us due to 
covid.  She stated they were perfectly fine voting absentee and that they liked that better.  
She stated they have gotten no complaints from the residents there.  Ms. Salyers also 
pointed out that we have voting in the basement of the County Service Center if the OVH 
residents want to vote on Election Day.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that turnout for OVH residents was very low.  Ms. Salyers stated it was 
low everywhere.  She also stated that she spoke with Jeff Hobday of the SOS legal 
department, who informed her that it was not illegal to not have a voting location at the 
OVH.  We must have a separate voting precinct for the OVH, which we do.  Their precinct 
is Perkins Township #5.  However, there is nothing in the law that states the OVH must be 
a polling location.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated he hopes the OVH provides transportation to residents who want to 
vote at the County Service Center on Election Day.  Ms. Salyers stated that they do.  Mr. 
Ferrell stated the most important point is that the residents there can vote.  He then asked 
Ms. Salyers for the name and telephone number of the administrator she spoke with.  Ms. 
Salyers stated she would give that to him.   
 
Ms. Salyers then spoke on polling location changes.  She stated she spoke with Milan 
Township, and they agreed to host both Milan Township #1 and #2 at the Milan Township 
Fire Station on St Rt 13.  
 
Ms. Salyers also spoke with Grace Lutheran Church in Castalia, and they agreed to host 
the precincts Margaretta Township #1 and #2.  She stated that she and Ms. James visited 
the church, and that they have beautiful facilities that are ADA accessible.   
 
Eventually, we would like to have all Margaretta Township precincts (#1 through #4) be at 
the old Margaretta School building, once construction of the new school is complete.  Ms. 
Salyers stated she would speak to the schools about this.  She stated it would be a good idea 
because if there were last-minute call-offs, there would still be plenty of remaining poll 
workers to work.  Also, by having the polling location be a public entity, then they can’t 
refuse us.     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Mr. Monaghan asked about parking at the schools.  Ms. Salyers stated there would be 
plenty of parking.  Mr. Monaghan also asked about the Field House polling location in 
Vermilion.  Ms. Salyers stated she called the mayor of Vermilion, who told her there was 
no other place for us to go.  The mayor informed her that having a polling place at the 
Vermilion firehouse might interfere with emergency medical services.   
 
Eliza Link, Clerk, stated that complaints about the Vermilion Field House have gone way 
down.  Ms. Salyers agreed.  She stated that people don’t like change, but once they get used 
to it, it’s not so bad.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if there was anything else.  Ms. James asked if the board wanted to 
formally vote to allow us to make the changes in Milan and Margaretta Townships.  Mr. 
Monaghan stated he didn’t think that was necessary; the other board members agreed.   
 
Motion to go into executive session to discuss security matters, pursuant to revised code 
121.22(G)(6) was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  A roll call vote was 
taken.   
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
 
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 12:55 p.m.   
 
Motion to leave executive session and return to regular session was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 
1:05 p.m.  
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 1:06 p.m.  
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

