The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Board Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, July 15th, 2022 at 8:11 a.m.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Diane Schaefer and Caleb Stidham 
 
Motion to pay the bills was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion 
carried.   
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, reviewed numbers for early and absentee voting.  She 
stated that voting has been slow and steady.  As of yesterday evening, we have had 150 in 
office, early voters.  We have mailed 318 ballots and received 83 of them back.  Of the 83, 
82 are countable and one is uncountable.  The uncountable one was due to either missing 
signature or missing ID information, but one of the clerks sent an 11-S supplemental form 
to that voter.  43 nursing home residents have requested ballots, and our bipartisan 
nursing home team will be going out next week to help those folks.  We have had three 
hand carries, and two of those have been returned.  We have mailed four UOCAVA ballots, 
and one of those has been returned.  Finally, we have emailed four UOCAVA ballots, and 
none of those have been returned.   
 
Mr. Smith asked if we were able to determine whether people living in areas with contested 
races are voting at a higher rate than people living in areas with uncontested races.  Ms. 
James stated she was not sure and would have to research that.   
 
Ms. James stated she wrote the Election Administration Plan, or E.A.P. for the November 
8th, 2022 General Election and emailed it to the board members earlier this week.  This 
year’s EAP is 50 pages long, and while some of it is copied and pasted from 2020, in other 
sections there is new material.  Motion to approve the EAP was made by Mr. Monaghan, 
seconded by Mr. Krabill.  A roll call vote was taken.   
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
 
Motion carried.  The board members and the Director and Deputy Director signed the 
EAP so it could be submitted to the SOS office.   
 
Ms. James stated that we have received several issues for the November ballot.  Kelleys 
Island Village would like to put on a renewal levy for current operating expenses, while 
Perkins Township would like to put on two renewal levies, one for fire and EMS, and one 
for police protection.  We have submitted the paperwork to the SOS office, and they have 
approved the ballot language.  Mr. Smith asked what the deadline is for subdivisions to 
submit paperwork to place an issue on the November ballot.  Ms. James stated the deadline 
is August 10th, which is 90 days before the election.  Motion to approve the three ballot 
issues was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Ms. James then asked if the board members would like to reschedule the August board 
meeting.  Currently, we have our official canvass scheduled for Monday, August 15th at 
9:00 a.m., and our official certification and regular monthly meeting scheduled for 
Wednesday, August 17th at 9:00 a.m.  However, Ms. James wanted to know if the board 
members would like to do both meetings on the same day.  The board members indicated 
that would be fine.  They decided to keep the official canvass on Monday, August 15th at 9 
a.m., then recess, then come back into regular session at 3:00 p.m. that day for the official 
certification and regular monthly meeting.   
 
 
Page 1 of 4

Next on the agenda was “any other matters to come before the board.”  Mr. Monaghan 
stated he would like to see the minutes of each meeting two weeks after the meeting.  Ms. 
James stated she would do that.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that the Board of Elections office needed its own credit card.  This would 
make it easier so that the Director and Deputy do not have to purchase items on their own 
credit card and then be reimbursed.  Director Lori Salyers agreed and gave an example of 
UOCAVA ballots.  During the May 2022 Primary, we had to pay for expedited shipping of 
UOCAVA ballots.  There was no time to ask the board for prior authorization, so Ms. 
James had to pay for the expedited shipping with her own credit card, and then be 
reimbursed.  Ms. Salyers also stated that the office would like its own Amazon account.  
Currently, if we need to purchase something off Amazon, we go through Tim Jonovich in 
the county IT department, and then reimburse him.   
 
Motion to allow the Board of Elections to obtain a credit card in their own name was made 
by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Ms. Salyers asked if there was 
a specific type of card she should obtain.  Mr. Smith cautioned against obtaining a credit 
card with reward points, because then people could say we are using the points for our own 
benefit.  Ms. Salyers stated she would contact Civista Bank for the credit card, since that is 
where the county does its banking.   
 
Ms. Salyers then gave updates on grant money.  The SOS office awarded us $196,171 in 
grant money for the August Primary.  We are working on purchasing rolling ballot bags 
with that money.  We have also purchased a postage scanner and laminator with the grant 
money.  Ms. Salyers indicated the grant money would also pay for full-time overtime 
wages, part-time wages, poll worker wages, ballots, L&A, and support.  Basically, it will 
pay for this entire election.   
 
Ms. Salyers then reviewed the grant money we received and spent for the May Primary.  
We received $1,514 for UOCAVA-related expenses.  We spent $554.61 for envelopes, and 
$290.69 to reimburse Ms. James for expedited shipping of ballots.  The remaining balance 
is $668.70, which we must return to the SOS office.   
 
We received $87,441 to use for other expenses for the May Primary.  We spent $10,120.63 
for overtime wages for full-time employees.  We spent $4,975.06 on part-time wages.  We 
spent $2,113.40 for the county OPERS match, and $218.89 for the county Medicare match.  
The remaining balance is $70,013.02, which the state has told us to keep for now.   
 
Mr. Krabill asked, just so he’s understanding correctly, that we have $70,000 remaining 
from May, and $196,000 in new money for August?  Ms. Salyers confirmed that was 
correct.  She also stated we received a $10,000 HAVA grant for security, and that she was 
working with Netpoint on that.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked for the source of the money.  Mr. Krabill reviewed his paperwork and 
stated that the grant money was from Amended House Bill 377.  Ms. Salyers stated that 
any unused money we must return to the SOS, so the county can’t take it from us.  Mr. 
Smith inquired if we could use any of the grant money for the November election.  Ms. 
Salyers stated no; it must be for the August election, so if any of the board members can 
think of something to purchase for August, please let her know.  Mr. Smith inquired if we 
are good with PPE.  Ms. Salyers stated that we are, and that she also bought more wipes 
and Kleenex.  Mr. Smith also asked if we were okay for equipment delivery.  Ms. Salyers 
stated that we were, and that the Sheriff’s office would again be assisting us with that.  
 
Ms. James then gave updates on poll pads.  She spoke with Keith Cunningham from 
Knowink at the summer conference, who informed her that we would likely need to 
purchase new poll pads next year.  The reason for this is that the poll pads we currently

Knowink at the summer conference, who informed her that we would likely need to 
purchase new poll pads next year.  The reason for this is that the poll pads we currently 
have will only support one more update after this election.  However, the SOS office would 
like Boards of Elections to continue to do updates on the pads to make them as secure as 
possible.   
 
Page 2 of 4

Mr. Cunningham stated there are two options.  The first option is to purchase new pads, 
while the second option is to lease new pads for three years.  He is working on getting us a 
quote for both options.  We are fine for this election and for November, but we will likely 
need the new pads for 2023.   
 
Mr. Smith inquired how long we have had our current pads.  Ms. James stated five years.  
Ms. Salyers stated she would recommend leasing pads so that we can turn them in after a 
few years and get new ones.  Mr. Ferrell asked who the leasing agent is.  Ms. Salyers stated 
she was not sure.  She also stated that we received a quote from ES&S for buying new poll 
pads, and that it was very high.  Ms. James stated she would rather obtain new poll pads 
from Knowink because she is used to working with them.  Ms. Salyers then stated she was 
working on obtaining a charging tower for the poll pads.   
 
Ms. Schaefer stated she had several questions.  She wanted to know if local governments 
would be billed chargebacks for the August election.  Ms. James stated they would not 
because there are no issues on the ballot this time.  Ms. Schaefer then suggested increasing 
pay for poll workers this election.  Mr. Ferrell stated we had talked about that, and we may 
discuss it further at the next meeting.  Ms. Schaefer then asked if we have issue numbers 
yet for November.  Ms. James stated not yet.  We will not have those until after August 
10th, which is the deadline for turning in paperwork to place issues on the November ballot.  
Ms. Schaefer stated that Perkins Township would likely be placing one more issue on the 
November ballot.  She also thanked Board of Elections staff for some of the changes they 
made during the recent poll work training sessions.   
 
Next, Ms. Schaefer commented on undeliverable change of polling location postcards that 
were misdelivered.  This matter was discussed at the May 2nd board meeting, and Ms. 
Schaefer passed out copies of the minutes from that meeting to the board members.  Ms. 
Scahefer indicated she was the Perkins Township employee who returned the undeliverable 
postcards they received back to the Board of Elections.  She stated she spoke with the 
postmaster, who informed her that with the way their sorter reads cards, they delivered 
undeliverable postcards to the polling location instead of the Board of Elections.  Ms. 
Schaefer stated she heard that the same issue happened with postcards sent out for this 
election, informing voters in Huron A and C that their new location is the Methodist 
Church.  She stated that she brought this issue to Ms. Salyers’ attention and wanted to 
know why it was not fixed.  She also stated it should be everyone’s goal to inform voters of 
where they go to vote.   
 
Mr. Ferrell inquired if we print our own cards.  Ms. Salyers stated that Triad prints our 
cards.  She also stated that she spoke with the postmaster, who informed her that he takes 
care of sorting, and that he will make sure we get the undeliverable cards from now on.   
 
Ms. James stated, just to be clear, she understands we want the undeliverable cards sent 
back to us so as not to inconvenience the new polling locations.  However, regardless of 
where the postcards are returned, the voter still won’t know the new location, because the 
cards are undeliverable.  Ms. James also stated that the next time we are forced to move a 
polling location, she will ask Triad to please print the address of the new polling location on 
the opposite side of the postcard so that the undeliverable ones are less likely to be 
mishandled.  Ms. Schaefer stated that was her suggestion originally.  She also asked how 
the Sandusky postmaster is supposed to control what happens in Huron.  Ms. Salyers 
replied that the mail comes from Cleveland to Sandusky.  Ms. Schaefer countered that 
Huron mail does not come to Sandusky.  Mr. Ferrell stated we would check into it further.

replied that the mail comes from Cleveland to Sandusky.  Ms. Schaefer countered that 
Huron mail does not come to Sandusky.  Mr. Ferrell stated we would check into it further.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 4

Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 8:45 a.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 4

