The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Ferrell at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, April 23rd, 2021.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Preston Barnum and Amy Grubbe 
 
Motion to approve the minutes from the previous meeting on March 26 was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to pay the bills was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion 
carried.   
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated that there needed to be a motion for the allocation 
of equipment for the May 4, 2021 Primary/Special Election.  The plan is to have one DS200 
per polling location, and one Expressvote per polling location.  Motion to approve this 
allocation of equipment was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion 
carried.   
 
Ms. James then stated that after the reorganization meeting in March, we never made an 
updated contact sheet.  Ms. James made an updated contact sheet for this board meeting, 
and put the contact sheet in everyone’s folders.  She asked the board members to review it 
for accuracy, and then she could send it to the Secretary of State and the other 87 county 
BOEs.  The board members took a few moments to review the contact sheet and said 
everything looked okay.   
 
Next, Ms. James gave an update on absentee voting.  She stated that absentee voting had 
been really slow this election.  We have cut down on our part-timers, but we do have at 
least one Democratic part-timer in the office for several hours a day to try to maintain 
parity between Democrats and Republicans.  In addition, the full time staff have been 
staggering their hours to try to avoid accumulating excessive comp time.  As for numbers, 
there have been zero military and overseas voters, 58 in office, 201 mailed out, 128 mailed 
ballots returned, zero hand carries, and six nursing home ballots.  Ms. James and Director 
Lori Salyers did the public test a couple weeks ago, and starting scanning but not 
tabulating ballots earlier in the week.  So far, numbers are coming out perfectly.  Clerk 
Eliza Link also added that so far, there have been zero provisional voters.   
 
Next, part-time worker Preston Barnum spoke to the board members about the topaz 
signature pads.  According to Triad, a couple of counties implemented the pads in last 
year’s August special, while 33 counties implemented them during last November.  None of 
the counties had any problems with them.  Triad also stated that they would provide 
technical support for us for the pads, regardless of where we buy them.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that he liked the idea of using the topaz signature pads.  Mr. Barnum 
stated that with the topaz pads, the voter’s signature would be on file forever, which could 
help us verify signatures in the future.  Mr. Barnum also gave handouts to the board 
members that explained how the topaz signature pads would work.  
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if we needed a motion to go through with purchasing the pads.  Mr. 
Smith stated that he was not in a hurry, and that he wanted to form a sub-committee to 
look at the whole process of early voting.  According to him, the topaz signature pads are 
part of a bigger conversation of how we can improve and speed up the early voting 
experience.  He also suggested that Mr. Ferrell and Mr. Krabill could try out the topaz 
pads during the vendor fair portion of the SOS conference in June.  Mr. Krabill suggested 
that we keep the pace moving.  He also suggested that Mr. Smith and Mr. Monaghan could 
serve on the subcommittee while he and Mr. Ferrell attended the conference.  
 
 
Page 1 of 5

Mr. Smith asked who in the office takes the lead on early voting, and Ms. Link stated all of 
us.  Mr. Smith also suggested a new location for early voting, such as the fairgrounds.  Ms. 
Salyers stated that that would be difficult, because it would involve moving equipment.  
Mr. Smith stated that he was thinking of a new location for gubernatorial and presidential 
years.   
 
Next, Ms. Salyers gave an update on the dropbox.  She said that we ordered one and got it 
shipped to us.  She also stated that she had a couple quotes for security cameras, but asked 
the board if they wanted to talk about that in executive session because it is regarding 
security.  Mr. Ferrell stated yes.  He also stated that it looks like the dropbox will go where 
the commissioners want it.  However, some voters, including members of the Democratic 
Party, have expressed their concerns to the commissioners about the placement of the 
dropbox.  The letter that the Democratic executive committee sent to the commissioners is 
below:  
 
“Dear Commissioners:  
 
On behalf of the Erie County Democratic Party Executive Committee and all voters of Erie 
County, we are writing to you concerning the elections drop box receptacle that is to be 
installed for Erie County electors.  
 
As you know, the current drop box is located within the foyer of the Erie County Service 
Center at 2900 Columbus Ave, Sandusky.  The box is small and has been confused with the 
Veterans drop box that was located in the same area.  Thus, there were issues with security 
and chain of custody when someone other than an elections official/employee of the Erie 
County Board of Elections was retrieving any elections materials that may have been 
dropped in the wrong drop box.  In addition, the location of the drop box required voters 
to walk up several stairs/steps or walk around a long and angled ramp- both are difficult 
for many people such as seniors and/or those with various restricted physical abilities to 
navigate.  Finally, it is located right inside the foyer of the building causing confusion, 
delays, and access to the building not only by voters, but also by other visitors to the 
building when visiting other offices as long lines were consistent during the 2020 primary 
and general election cycles early voting periods.  
 
The Erie County Board of Elections Board Members have ordered a more appropriate 
drop box for the 2021 election cycle.  It will be a post office mailbox-style receptacle- much 
larger than the current drop box.  The intent of the board members and staff is to locate 
the new drop box in an area on the grounds of the Service Center that would enable 24/7, 
easy, convenient drive-up access for voters when registering to vote, updating registrations, 
requesting ballots by mail and most importantly- delivering their ballots to the Erie County 
Board of Elections by maintaining the secure and bipartisan chair of custody as required 
by the Secretary of State’s Directive 2021-10.  
 
Initially, the location of the new drop box was tentatively planned for the north end of the 
Service Center building- as suggested by one of the maintenance staff to the board of 
elections staff.  There is a ‘roundabout’ drive area for cars to easily access from two 
different approaches- the roadway off of Columbus Avenue that leads back to the Erie 
County Sheriff’s building- and from the driveway along the eastside of the Water 
Department.  This drop box area would checkoff all the boxes outline above: 24/7, easy, 
convenient drive-up access, more visible from Columbus Avenue and the Sheriff’s 
Department and allow voters to remain in their car to literally drop off elections material- 
this would be good no matter what the weather may be at any time during the election 
cycle.  The camera that is required for security purposes as outlined by the Secretary of 
State’s directives would be easily mounted to provide the 24/7 monitoring at a substantially

cycle.  The camera that is required for security purposes as outlined by the Secretary of 
State’s directives would be easily mounted to provide the 24/7 monitoring at a substantially 
lower cost- which taxpayers, the board and commissioners would appreciate for everyone’s 
budgets.  
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 5

During recent Erie County Board of Elections Board Meetings, staff have advised that 
commissioners would like for the drop box to be located on the east side of the Water 
Department next to the Water Department’s payment drop box.  This area is located right 
outside the Employee Entrance where there is little room for a large mailbox-style drop 
box. The area is behind the building; therefore, it would not be out into the open as the 
location of the north side would provide.  There is potential for confusion with voters 
dropping their elections materials into the wrong box which would then jeopardize the 
security and the chain of custody of elections materials.  The Maintenance Department and 
the trash pickup area is located there along with multiple parking areas.  It would seem 
there would be the possibility of accidents with more cars dropping off materials into two 
drop boxes.  The cost of mounting the camera on the brick building would be more 
expensive than on the north side of the main Service Center Building.  Finally, when staff 
are retrieving the elections materials from the drop box, they will be more secured and 
safer when walking inside the Service Center building through the hallway to the north 
side of the building rather than walking outside to the east side behind the Water 
Department building- including dealing with weather elements and darkness depending on 
the time of the year.  
 
Upon review, we hope the commissioners would agree that placing the new drop box on the 
north side of the Service Center building is better and safer for all concerned- constituents 
and employees of all departments alike.  Thank you for your consideration and resolution 
to this matter.” 
 
Mr. Ferrell mentioned that when we assisted the voters last year at the OVH, we gave the 
oath of office to two OVH workers, one Republican and one Democrat, so that they could 
assist the residents.  He inquired whether we could do that for the water department, too.  
That way, if voters accidently put their voted ballots in the water box instead of the BOE 
box, the designated water department employees who took the oath can handle those 
ballots, and then there would not be a chain of custody issue.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated we should run that by Sue Brown of the prosecutor’s office.  He said if 
we ask the Secretary of State’s office, they will just defer to our county prosecutor.  Mr. 
Monaghan commented that he wasn’t sure why the commissioners aren’t letting us put the 
box where we want to put it.  He stated that the money isn’t coming from the 
commissioners’ budget; it is coming from ours.  Mr. Smith stated that if you pay attention 
to what is going on the state legislature, they’re talking about getting rid of dropboxes.  He 
stated that we should wait because we might be spending all this money for nothing.  He 
also stated that hopefully we would hear more about dropboxes at the conference.   
 
Next, Ms. Salyers stated that she had some information to share regarding credit cards.  
She checked with the Sandusky County BOE, but they did not get back to her.  She also 
checked with the Huron County BOE.  At that board, the director uses her own credit card 
to make purchases for the office, and then the board reimburses her.  In other counties, 
though, the BOE has its own credit card.  Ms. Salyers stated that we could get our own 
credit card, and set up a policy whereby we must have prior authorization before we can 
use it.  Right now if we need something from Amazon, for example, we must borrow the 
county IT department’s credit card.   
 
Mr. Smith stated that if other county departments have credit cards, then they must have 
policies in place that have been reviewed by the prosecutor’s office.  Mr. Ferrell confirmed 
that that was correct.  Ms. Salyers pointed out that we needed a credit card to set up our 
email domain, so Mr. Krabill used his card and then we reimbursed him.  Mr. Smith

that that was correct.  Ms. Salyers pointed out that we needed a credit card to set up our 
email domain, so Mr. Krabill used his card and then we reimbursed him.  Mr. Smith 
suggested getting a credit card policy in place and contacting the prosecutor’s office for 
help with that.  Mr. Krabill agreed, and stated that in the meantime, if the office needs to 
purchase something using a credit card, to contact him.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 5

Next, Ms. Salyers gave an update on the open Democratic clerk position.  She stated that 
we received five applications for the job, and that she gave copies of the apps to both Mr. 
Ferrell and Mr. Monaghan.  Mr. Monaghan stated that he would like to advertise again 
and this time put in the salary and benefits.  He stated that the applications we got are 
okay, but he would like to see if we can get a few more.   
 
Mr. Smith asked if either Mr. Monaghan, Mr. Ferrell, or anyone else in the Democratic 
Party had any leads on anyone looking for a job right now.  Mr. Monaghan responded that 
we need to examine the clerk salary, and look at what they used to do versus what they are 
doing now.  Mr. Smith responded that anything we do regarding the clerk salary has to be 
in line with our budget.  He stated that the commissioners approve our budget, and we 
must work with them.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that if you look at the salary survey that Mr. Krabill conducted last 
year, about 30 percent of the counties that are around our size are paying their clerks more 
than we are.  Mr. Ferrell asked Ms. Salyers to contact Matt Wilson in Human Resources 
and have him do a review of the position.  Ms. Salyers responded that she already 
contacted him, and that he would be coming down to our office after the election.   
 
Ms. Salyers also stated that she thinks there is something to be said for experience.  She 
does not feel it is fair for the new clerk to be paid the same amount of money as Ms. Link, 
since Ms. Link has been here for two years and will be training the new clerk.  Ms. Salyers 
also mentioned that when she worked for the state, employees there got step raises.  Mr. 
Krabill stated that he would appreciate a proposal on step raises being brought to the 
board.  Ms. Salyers stated that she could do that.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that recently in the HR department, an employee underwent 
additional training and then received a $2,000 raise.  He stated it should be the same here.  
Ms. Salyers stated that she completed Ms. Link’s performance evaluation and placed it in 
the board members’ folders.  Ms. Salyers stated that when a previous deputy director left 
in 2019, Ms. Link picked up more responsibilities.  When the prior director left in 2020, 
Ms. Link took on more responsibilities then, as well.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that it seems like there is a bit of bias against the BOE up in the 
commissioners’ office.  He read the minutes from a commissioners meeting last year on 
March 4, which are as follows:  
 
“Board of Elections: It was pointed out that that office staff had received a 2% rate 
increase ($3,961) and an employee who resigned was paid $20,325 over policies.  Mr. Old 
said he doesn’t believe the members of the Elections Board are taking their jobs seriously, 
and they are making poor managerial and financial decisions.”  
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that he wants to make it clear that for the new clerk position, there is a 
six-month probationary period.  At the end of six months, the director and deputy director 
would evaluate the new employee.  If not everything is satisfactory, then we can look for 
another employee.   
 
Mr. Krabill asked if the Democratic board members are just not seeing the kind of 
candidates that they want.  Mr. Ferrell responded that he hasn’t even looked at the 
applications yet.  Mr. Monaghan stated that there’s only five applications, and he thinks 
it’s a good idea to run the ad again.  Ms. Link and Ms. James agreed.  Ms. Salyers asked if 
when she reruns the ad if she should list the salary.  Mr. Ferrell stated yes, and reminded 
her to mention the health benefits.  Mr. Monaghan commented that many places are 
struggling to hire employees right now, and Mr. Krabill confirmed that was true.  
 
Mr. Ferrell then asked if there were any questions from the audience, and Ms. Grubbe 
stated she had several.  First, she asked for a follow up on her public records request

Mr. Ferrell then asked if there were any questions from the audience, and Ms. Grubbe 
stated she had several.  First, she asked for a follow up on her public records request 
regarding the payout for the Democratic clerk who recently left.   
 
 
 
Page 4 of 5

Next, Ms. Grubbe asked how the office was handling hiring part-timers.  Ms. Link stated it 
was based on what we need.  Ms. Grubbe commented that right now in the office there are 
three Republicans and one Democrat.  Staff stated that no, there are currently two 
Democrats in the office.  Ms. Grubbe commented that it was still not equal.  Mr. Krabill 
explained that was only because a Democratic full time staff position is not currently filled.  
 
Ms. Grubbe then asked why the county Democratic Party did not receive a campaign 
finance notice to file a pre-primary report.  Ms. Link stated that for this election, it only 
affects Huron, Margaretta, and Monroeville Schools, plus Vermilion City Mayor.  Ms. 
Grubbe replied that if the party had decided to send a check out in support of the schools, 
and it was over $1,000, they would have to file.  She also stated that the party appreciated 
getting the letters.  Ms. Link stated that she would check the campaign finance handbook 
and get back to her.   
 
Motion to go into executive session to discuss security matters was made by Mr. Monaghan, 
seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 9:40 am.  
 
Motion to return to regular session was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  
Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 9:50 a.m.  
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 9:50 a.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 5

