The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, September 23rd, 2022 at 9:00 a.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Jason Hinners from Erie County Prosecutor’s Office and Caleb 
Stidham 
 
Motion to approve the minutes from the August 29th board meeting was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to pay the bills was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion 
carried.   
 
Lori Salyers, Director, gave an update on pursuing an office credit card.  She spoke with 
auditor Richard Jeffrey, who stated it was not a good idea.  She printed the email from Mr. 
Jeffrey and gave it to the board members.  It is okay to obtain a credit card for a specific 
store, such as Staples or Amazon, but to obtain a carte blanche credit card is not 
recommended.   
 
Mr. Smith asked if we can obtain most of our office supplies from Staples.  Ms. Salyers 
stated that if Staples, OSupplies, or Seagate does not have what we need, then we go to 
Amazon.  Previously we have used the County IT Department’s Amazon account and then 
reimbursed them.  Motion for the Board of Elections to obtain their own Amazon account 
was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  Mr. Krabill asked 
if we needed to rescind the previous motion from a few months ago to pursue an office 
credit card.  The other board members indicated that was not necessary.  
 
Next, Ms. Salyers gave an update on polling location changes.  The city of Sandusky 
informed us that we would not be able to use the Sandusky Municipal Building as a polling 
location due to renovations.  Instead, they offered us the use of the Mylander Pavilion.  Ms. 
Salyers stated that she and Deputy Director Adrienne James went there, and it was a very 
nice facility that is ADA compatible.  Ms. James stated they would send out postcards to 
the effected voters, who live in the precincts Sandusky E and G.  
 
Ms. Salyers then spoke about polling locations in Margaretta and Milan Townships.  She 
recently attended a Margaretta School Board meeting, where she stated we would 
eventually like to have all Margaretta Township precincts, #1 through #4, at the old high 
school gymnasium, once construction of the new school is complete.  The Superintendent 
indicated that would be fine and they would work with us on that.  In the meantime, 
Margaretta Townships #1 and #2 will be at Grace Lutheran Church, while Margaretta 
Townships #3 and #4 will be at the Castalia United Church of Christ.  Ms. Salyers also 
stated that we have consolidated Milan Township #1 and #2 at the Milan Fire Station on 
State Route 13.  She stated consolidating precincts is a good idea in case we receive poll 
worker call-offs on Election Morning. 
 
Next, Ms. Salyers spoke about the situation at the Ohio Veterans Home.  She previously 
spoke with Melissa Wilfong, the administrator at the OVH, and then called her again and 
left a message.  According to Ms. Salyers, the OVH administration is fine with us having a 
polling location for the residents in the basement of our building.  They have not received 
one complaint from the residents, because if they had, they would have had to address it.  
Ms. Salyers also stated she received an email from Jeff Hobday, Senior Elections Counsel 
at the SOS office, who informed us that the law does not require a polling location at the 
Veterans Home.   
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

Mr. Ferrell stated that if the residents want to vote on Election Day, that involves getting in 
the bus and getting out wheelchairs.  Ms. James stated that we offer curbside voting to 
people who are physically unable to enter the polling location.  Mr. Ferrell stated that he 
would try to make one more call to the OVH.  
 
Ms. Salyers stated that the rate of voting for OVH residents is high.  She gave the board 
members a spreadsheet she compiled, which compares the rate of voting for OVH residents 
to the rate of voting for the county.  The spreadsheet looks at all elections from the 2018 
Primary to the present.  In every election but two, OVH residents voted at a higher rate 
than the county.   
 
Next on the agenda was a discussion of a pay raise for precinct election officials, or PEOs.  
Ms. Salyers stated we have until October 1st to notify the commissioners in writing that we 
want to raise PEO pay for next year.  Mr. Ferrell stated he thinks we ought to raise it.  We 
should pick five counties with a similar number of voters, see what their PEOs are paid, 
then authorize Ms. Salyers to send the letter.  Mr. Smith asked if we needed to put the 
amount in the letter.  Ms. Salyers stated there is a cap according to the Elections Officials 
Manual, or EOM.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated that, in a recent conversation he had with the board of commissioners, 
one take-away he had was that the commissioners want better communication from us.  If 
we are looking at a pay raise for whatever position, there needs to be a conversation ahead 
of time before we take a vote.  Mr. Krabill stated that is what this process does.  We will 
send the commissioners a letter before October 1st, and then they can review it and 
comment on it.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated the board should authorize Ms. Salyers to send the letter stating we want 
to raise our PEO pay to be equitable to that of counties with similar number of voters.  Ms. 
Salyers asked if the letter should contain a definite dollar amount.  Mr. Ferrell stated the 
dollar amount would be reflected in next year’s budget.  Mr. Krabill asked for counsel’s 
opinion.  Mr. Hinners read the statute, which says, “No board of elections may increase a 
precinct election official’s pay during a calendar year unless the board has given written 
notice of the proposed increase to the board of county commissioners not later than 
October 1st of the preceding calendar year.”  Mr. Hinners stated it was his interpretation 
that the letter would contain the specific dollar amount.  Mr. Hinners also reminded the 
board of the cap of $133.72 per the EOM.  Mr. Ferrell asked how Lorain and Cuyahoga 
Counties pay their PEOs more.  Both Mr. Hinners and Ms. Salyers indicated it was because 
they pay more for training.   
 
Mr. Smith suggested raising PEO pay to $130 a day next year.  Currently we pay them 
$110 a day, so this would be an increase of $20.  Mr. Ferrell stated that the letter Ms. 
Salyers writes should indicate this does not reflect any training pay changes, which will be 
reflected in our budget.  Motion to authorize Ms. Salyers to write the letter was made by 
Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  Ms. Salyers asked the board 
members to come in and sign the letter before she sends it to the commissioners.   
 
Next on the agenda was discussing closing the office for the week of Christmas.  Ms. Salyers 
stated our last day in the office would be Friday, December 23rd, and our first day back in 
the office would be Tuesday, January 3rd.  Motion to close the office for the days Ms. 
Salyers proposed was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Next on the agenda was “any other matters to come before the board.”  Ms. Salyers 
proposed purchasing standing desks called Varidesks for the office.  We would like five, 
one for each full-time employee, and one for the part-time area in the front.  They are

proposed purchasing standing desks called Varidesks for the office.  We would like five, 
one for each full-time employee, and one for the part-time area in the front.  They are 
about $175 each.  She stated she was not sure if it would fit in this year’s budget, but if not, 
she can put it in next year's budget.  
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Mr. Smith asked if we are past the deadline for spending the August grant money.  Ms. 
Salyers stated that we are.  Mr. Smith asked how much of the grant money we would be 
returning to the state.  Ms. Salyers stated she was not sure of the exact amount, but we 
would be returning tens of thousands of dollars.  Mr. Ferrell stated he had no objections to 
the standing desks.  Mr. Smith stated he was fine with it if it was in our budget.  Ms. 
Salyers stated she would order them in December or January.  
 
Motion to go into executive session for personnel matters, specifically compensation, 
pursuant to ORC 121.22(G)(1), was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion 
carried.  Board went into executive session at 9:32 a.m.  
 
Motion to leave executive session and return to regular session was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Board resumed regular session at 
9:58 a.m.  
 
Motion to go into executive session for personnel matters, specifically employment, 
pursuant to ORC 121.22(G)(1), was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 9:59 a.m.  
 
Motion to leave executive session and return to regular session was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board resumed regular session at 
10:05 a.m.  
 
Motion to accept Ms. Salyers’ letter of retirement, effective March 1st, 2023, was made by 
Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  The board members thanked 
Ms. Salyers for her service and said they knew the last few years were rough.  Ms. Salyers 
thanked the board and praised the staff members for their hard work and dedication.   
 
Motion to go into executive session for security matters, pursuant to ORC 121.22(G)(6) was 
made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  Board went into 
executive session at 10:06 a.m.  
 
Motion to leave executive session and return to regular session was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board resumed regular session at 
10:29 a.m.   
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 10:29 a.m.   
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

