The pre-election meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Ferrell at 4:05 p.m. on Monday, May 3rd, 2021.  
 
 Roll Call:      (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Amy Grubbe 
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, started the meeting by giving an update on early and 
absentee voting.  She stated that early voting ended today at 2 p.m.  We had 272 voters in 
office.  We had 229 mailed ballots.  Of the mailed ballots, 200 have returned, and 29 are 
outstanding.  We have had zero hand carries, six nursing homes, and zero military and 
overseas.  The total number of early and absentee voters is 507.  She also stated that there 
were zero overvoted ballots for the board to review.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked how many precincts would be open tomorrow.  Ms. James stated that 
13 locations would be open and 24 precincts.   
 
Ms. James also stated that tomorrow, full time staff will arrive at the office by 5:30 a.m.  
Poll workers will arrive at their polling locations at 5:45 a.m.  Polls will be open from 6:30 
a.m. to 7:30 p.m.  At around 7:00 p.m. on Election Night, the board will reconvene to 
review any overvoted ballots.  Ms. James also reminded the board members that the 
official canvas meeting will take place on Monday, May 17 at 9 a.m., and the official 
certification and regular monthly meeting will take place on Wednesday, May 19 at 9 a.m.   
 
Lori Salyers, Director, stated that she had received questions from several voters in Huron 
about how much it would cost Huron Schools to put on this election.  She emailed Gery 
Gross from the prosecutor’s office, who said this was more of a request for information 
than a public records request.  Ms. Salyers asked the board members if it was okay to let 
people know the cost of the election.  The board members agreed that that was fine.  
 
Ms. James then reminded Mr. Smith that she had some extra “Vote Here” signs for him to 
put out at the Vermilion Veterans Field House.   
 
Motion to recess until tomorrow was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  
Motion carried.  Board recessed at 4:14 p.m.   
 
On Tuesday, May 4th, motion to reconvene was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. 
Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board reconvened at 7:10 p.m.   
 
Ms. James stated that there were no overvoted ballots to review.  At 7:30 p.m., staff 
scanned the last of the absentee ballots and started tabulating results.  They continued 
tabulating as the thumb drives came back from the polling locations.  Once all results were 
in, the board members, the director, and deputy signed the results form and sent it to the 
Secretary of State.  Staff also sent the results to overlapping counties, and posted them on 
the BOE website.   
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 8:58 p.m.   
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
Page 1 of 1

