The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order 
by Chairman Ferrell at 8:02 a.m. on Friday, January 31, 2020. 
 
 Roll Call:      (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Gerhard Gross, Peter Daniel, Edward Widman, Melissa Tomoro, 
Hank Solowiej. 
 
The meeting started with a discussion regarding the budget.  Mr. Widman stated that we 
have meet three times to discuss the budget with the personal circumstances that have 
arisen.  Mr. Widman stated we first met back in December.   
 
Mr. Widman stated the summary page on the top of the packet is what the 
commissioners typically see.  Mr. Widman stated we will be a little over if our staffing 
stays in place because the increase two years ago may be catching up to us, along with 
Jen’s termination payout.  
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that with the state mandating so many office hours, our staff could not 
possibly follow the “use it or lose it” comp time policy followed by the commissioners’ 
staff.  It was suggested that we may consider putting a cap on comp time and when it 
should be used.  
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that he realized they are basing the 2020 budget on the last 
presidential election in 2016.  However, the 2016 budget does not have anything in it 
dealing with cyber security.  That is all we hear about anymore.  Mr. Ferrell stated that 
Homeland Security has been in and made an assessment.  That will be expensive.  The 
local fire department has also been in to do an assessment and we are good there.  Our 
issue is with handicap accessibility.  The public has every right to enter our back room 
and see the ballots counted and we do have visitors, especially during recounts.  Also, 
when Homeland Security came out for the physical security assessments, we had 
problems with direct access to the voter registration cards being right over the counter.   
 
We have received a quote from Accurate Business Supplies for some of the physical 
security, such as cameras for the public area for a video file.   
 
Mr. Ferrell thought it was about ten thousand dollars in effect to the Homeland 
Security’s recommendations.  
 
Mr. Krabill inquired on what line of the budget that would go on and Mr. Ferrell stated 
he would put it on the capital line of the budget.  Mr. Ferrell stated he did not know the 
cost of making the office handicap accessible.  
 
Mr. Monaghan stated the office would need something similar to what was put in 
downtown at the Treasurer’s Office and the Title Office. 
 
Mr. Krabill stated he understands that the physical security is something that we need to 
do.  However, the cyber security is his main concern.  We need to do an assessment of 
what is the best way to handle cyber security.  We have very high level IT issues that we 
need to address.  Should we consider creating a position that could be shared between 
counties?  What is the cost effective way for the county to proceed?  We are spending an 
incredible sum of money on an hourly basis handling things as we are now.  
 
Page 1 of 4

Mr. Ferrell and Mr. Krabill stated we have used the fifty thousand dollars we received 
from the state.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated we have talked with Tim Jonovich from the county IT department 
regarding perhaps splitting time with other departments throughout the county.  
 
Mr. Krabill stated the cyber security is not going to end with the Board of Elections.  It 
will eventually affect the auditor’s office, the treasurer’s office, etc.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that putting some rough numbers together, it would be around thirty 
grand for the handicap accessibility improvements.  It would probably be around 
another ten thousand for the accurate business physical security improvements.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that with everything included, we are looking at about forty grand on 
our capital budget line.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that he did not think using the 2016 presidential budget was relevant 
due to there being no cyber security directive back then.   
 
Mr. Monaghan also stated with a new director and deputy director that we may need to 
address some contractual services and training that will be needed.   
 
The two percent raises from 2018 were also addressed.  Mr. Ferrell stated we receive less 
pay than some other counties.  Mr. Ferrell stated we are here pleading our case for 
salaries because we cannot afford to make any other cuts.  
 
Mr. Krabill had a question since this is his first budget process.  What happens when 
there is a mandate of any department that results in necessary expenditures that are not 
in our budget?   
 
Mr. Daniel stated that is exactly why in the commissioner’s opinion, the state should be 
taking this over.  It does not belong at the county level.  You have to quantify how much 
it is.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated we would have those numbers for you before it is time to pass the 
budget.  He feels our estimate may be a little high but not by that much, based on what 
we have to do.  
 
Mr. Daniel stated what he has heard is the commissioners would like the cyber security 
work contracted out as opposed to hiring another county IT person.  
 
Mr. Ferrell asked Mr. Daniel how much they have in the capital budget line for this 
year.  Mr. Daniel stated they have no number at all yet.  
 
It usually runs between a million and a million and a half.  That is standard.   
 
Mr. Widman stated they have made notes but like to get a general overview of all 
departments that are in the budget process before they start the process of what’s in and 
what’s out.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated we will get you guys some rock solid numbers.   
 
Mr. Daniel stated it sounds reasonable with the numbers you stated, but what doesn’t is 
the IT side of things.  He is thinking that having someone who would come in for a 
couple of hours a day would probably cost around thirty thousand.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated we would get the hard numbers to Ed or Melissa.   
 
 
           Page 2 of 4

Mr. Krabill inquired if there are any examples of counties sharing IT services around 
here.  Mr. Daniel stated it is not a bad idea, but how often it really happens is rare.  
Social service type of things and smaller counties down south may use shared services.   
 
Mr. Widman reminded the board an idea would be to contact our county insurance 
company.  
 
Mr. Solowiej stated a copy of the homeland security assessment would be helpful.  
 
Mr. Ferrell thanked everyone for coming in for the budget meeting.  
 
Mr. Krabill inquired about who has dropped out of the race and what do we do if they 
are on our ballot.  Ms. Ward stated we received an email form the SOS yesterday and 
withdrawn candidates will stay on the ballot because they withdrew too late.   
 
Next, it was asked if we need to know anything about this email from Carrie Whitaker. 
Ms. Ward stated she just wanted to let the board know that no one should be affected 
with the few boundary changes that have been made.   
 
Ms. Ward requested the board consider training from our Vendor TRIAD.  She will get 
a new quote for training.  
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that we should also put in the budget to go to REO classes before the 
next conference in June.  Ms. Ward stated she had already spoken to Melissa Tomoro 
about that earlier in the week.  
 
Kelley’s Island poll workers have asked if the board would pay for flights for training 
classes if the ferry is not running.  The board agreed that they would pay for flights if 
necessary.  
 
Mr. Smith made a motion to pay the bills, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
 
Mr. Gross stated that we have a voter registration hearing in a few minutes.  Did 
everyone look at the last transcript?  You are entitled to ask questions.   
 
Mr. Gross stated the legal issue is that the board decided years ago that the person is not 
a resident of Kelley’s Island, so that becomes a binding precedent, so to speak.  
Therefore, the issue becomes what has changed since the last time.  Otherwise, the 
decision that the board has made before is a binding legal decision since he did not 
challenge it in court.  The previous decision is effective until the person presents changed 
circumstances.   
 
Carol Matthews is a Republican but will be requesting a Democratic ballot for the 
primary.  Can we use her as a Democratic poll worker?  The board agreed that as long 
as she casts a Democratic ballot before the primary, she can work as a Democrat on 
voting day.  
 
Do the loaders of the voting equipment the night before need to be declared?  The board 
agreed that no, they do not need to be declared to move voting equipment.   
 
Motion to adjourn the meeting was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill. 
Motion carried.  Meetings was adjourned at 8:55 a.m.  
 
           Page 3 of 3

________________________________________  
Lori Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
__________________________________________  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman  
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 4

