The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Board Member William Monaghan on Friday, June 25, 2021 at 9:00 a.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Absent (excused) 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Amy Grubbe, Mary Ann Groot 
 
Motion to approve the board meeting minutes from May 17, May 19, and June 3 was made 
by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
 
Motion to pay the bills was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Next on the agenda was the summary of the summer conference.  Ms. Salyers stated that 
the first day consisted of a tabletop exercise where SOS staff presented various problem 
scenarios and asked conference goers how they would handle the situation.  Ms. Salyers 
stated that she learned a lot from this exercise.  Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated 
that the rest of the conference consisted of panels on various topics such as recruiting poll 
workers, working with county commissioners and county prosecutors, and preparing ballot 
language.     
 
Ms. Salyers stated that one panel she found interesting was the one on working with your 
county commissioners.  The panel consisted of BOE employees and commissioners from 
several Ohio counties.  The commissioners from other counties did not really understand 
what Boards of Elections do.  They, like the public, think BOEs work “only two days out 
the year.”  Ms. Salyers said it was interesting to hear their stories and how they worked 
things out.  She also stated that maybe we can foster some sort of relationship with the 
commissioners and others on the third floor.  She said she was willing to go up and talk 
with them with a board member.   
 
Mr. Smith stated that Ms. Salyers should be in communication with the commissioners all 
the time, and that she shouldn’t need a board member to talk with them.  Ms. Salyers 
responded that she wasn’t sure what she was allowed to say.  Maybe if one of the board 
members went up with her the first time, then she would feel more comfortable after that.  
Mr. Krabill stated don’t wait to talk to the third floor until you have a need.  He said to be 
friendly and get to know them.  You need to develop the relationship more broadly than 
just crisis management.   
 
Next, Ms. James talked about speeding up the absentee voting process.  She stated that staff 
would still like to purchase the topaz signature pads, but that unfortunately, there were no 
signature pads to try at the vendor fair portion of the conference.  She also talked about 
getting rid of the laptops for early voting, and putting the laptop programs on our already 
existing computers.  Both she and Eliza Link, clerk, feel this would speed up the early 
voting process significantly.  Dustin from Balotar came out to look at the laptops, and he 
estimated that with time, travel, and labor, it would cost $850.  
 
Mr. Krabill stated he thinks it’s money well spent.  Mr. Smith asked if there was money in 
the budget for this.  Ms. Salyers referred the board members to the handout she gave them, 
which shows how much money is left in each account currently.  Mr. Smith stated that we 
need to know our projected numbers for the rest of year, so that we know if we will come in 
under or over budget.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 4

Ms. Salyers stated that we should be getting some money back from chargebacks.  She also 
stated that currently, we do not have enough money to pay for poll workers.  The reason 
for this is that she had been paying vendors such as ES&S and Triad out of the contract 
services account.  However, Tammy at the Auditor’s office informed her that the previous 
director only used contract services to pay poll workers.  Now that Ms. Salyers knows this, 
she has started paying vendors such as ES&S and Triad out of the software maintenance 
and support.  However, we will still need more money in contract services to pay poll 
workers this November.  
 
Mr. Monaghan suggested going upstairs to talk to Melissa to see if we can move some 
money around.  Mr. Krabill suggested that some of the chargeback money could go into 
contract services, and asked Ms. Salyers how much she was anticipating.  Ms. Salyers 
responded approximately $20,000.  Mr. Monaghan mentioned how we have about $35,000 
left in repairs and maintenance.  He, Mr. Krabill, and Ms. James agreed that some of that 
money could be moved into contract services as well.   
 
Mr. Smith stated that we have contracts with all of our vendors, and asked when they are 
due.  Ms. Salyers stated that it varies.  For example, we just got the bill for Triad’s annual 
maintenance and support, and that was $16,580.  Mr. Smith stated that with all this 
uncertainty, he just doesn’t understand how we can talk about spending more money.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated that he agrees with Mr. Smith.  He asked the staff to get together and 
project the spending out for the rest of the year.  He said to get that information to us 
before the next meeting, and then we’ll make a decision on spending.  
 
Mr. Smith stated, circling back, how old are the laptops?  Ms. James stated two years old.  
Mr. Smith asked, And they’re already that slow?  Ms. Link responded that it’s not that the 
laptops themselves are slow; it’s that they slow down the absentee voting process.  The age 
of the laptops has nothing to do with it.  Staff members agreed, though, that they would 
still hold on to the laptops just in case.   
 
Next on the agenda was the approval of petitions and issues received thus far for the 
November election.  Ms. James stated that four people had submitted petitions for various 
township trustee positions.  All four petitions were good and had more than enough valid 
signatures.  The board took a few minutes to review the petitions.   
 
Motion to approve the petition for Jim Lang, candidate for Perkins Township trustee, was 
made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to approve the petition for Edward Wimmer, candidate for Huron Township 
trustee, was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to approve the petition for James Stewart, candidate for Oxford Township trustee, 
was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to approve the petition for Jim Lang, candidate for Perkins Township trustee, was 
made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Ms. James then showed the board members the paperwork that various subdivisions had 
submitted in order to place levies on the ballot this November.   
 
Motion to approve the Erie County General Health District renewal levy, pending SOS 
approval, was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to approve the Berlin Village operating expenses renewal levy, pending SOS 
approval, was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to approve the Kelleys Island operating expenses renewal levy, pending SOS 
approval, was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
 
Page 2 of 4

Motion to approve the Kelleys Island police department additional levy, pending SOS 
approval, was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to approve the Kelleys Island fire and ems renewal and increase levy, pending SOS 
approval, was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to approve the Berlin Township fire and ems renewal levy, pending SOS approval, 
was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Next on the agenda was discussion of the dropbox.  Ms. Salyers stated that she spoke with 
Diane Grosso of the SOS office regarding the placement of the dropbox.  Ms. Grosso stated 
that she should speak with the ADA coordinator, Brett Harbage.  Ms. Salyers took pictures 
of where the commissioners want us to put the box and where we want to put the box and 
sent them to Mr. Harbage.  There are some concerns that where the commissioners want to 
put the box would not be ADA accessible.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated we should let the SOS rule on this.  Mr. Smith asked if Mr. Harbage 
could come and look at the proposed locations.  Ms. James stated we could call him and 
ask.  Mr. Krabill stated that if he comes up, we should invite someone from the third floor 
as well.  Mr. Krabill also said that he would bring the box back to the office.   
 
Next, Ms. Salyers talked about proposed updates to our policy book.  She stated that our 
policy book is very lacking, and that she made some proposed revisions to it and put them 
in the board members’ folders.  One example is regarding the dress code.  She stated that a 
lot of physical work is done in the office, and that no one wants to wear nice clothes for 
that.  Mr. Smith stated that he would like Gery or Sue from the prosecutor’s office to weigh 
in on the potential policy changes before discussing them at next month’s meeting.   
 
Next, Ms. Salyers spoke about the bill we received from the commissioners’ office for legal 
fees.  Someone sought outside counsel on whether or not the commissioners had to pay us 
overtime, and the commissioners wanted us to pay the bill for this counsel, which was over 
800 dollars.  Ms. Salyers told the commissioners that we would not pay for it without seeing 
the memorandum that the outside counsel produced.  The commissioners never sent the 
memorandum, and instead just paid the legal fees themselves.  Ms. Salyers stated she 
wanted the board members to be aware of this, and also wanted to make sure that none of 
the board members requested the memo themselves.  The board stated that they did not.   
 
Mr. Monaghan then asked if there were any other matters to come before the board.  Ms. 
Salyers stated that the commissioners’ office called her recently and said that they ran out 
of postage, and asked if they could use our machine.  Ms. Salyers told them yes.  They used 
$1600 of our postage.  Mr. Krabill said to bill them.  Mr. Monaghan stated that Ms. Salyers 
should talk to Melissa upstairs about that.   
 
Ms. Salyers then stated that the county is taking Friday, July 2 off in observance of 
Juneteenth.  Mr. Smith asked if we had any obligations to the SOS office that would mean 
we have to be open that day.  Staff said they were not aware of any.  Motion to close the 
office July 2 as long as we don’t have any obligations from the SOS office to be open was 
made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  Mr. Smith reminded staff 
to put on the website that we would be closed July 2 for Juneteenth, and closed July 5 for 
Independence Day.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked if there was anything else before the board went into executive 
session.  Ms. Grubbe stated she had a couple of points.  First, she finds it interesting that 
the county commissioners don’t know anything this office does considering they trashed 
her in a letter to the SOS office several years ago.  Second, Ms. Grubbe suggested that a 
work-study be done with H.R.   
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 4

Next, Ms. Grubbe made some comments about the dropbox.  She stated that the auditor’s 
website has pictures of the surrounding areas, and that Mr. Harbage could look at those.  
She also stated that she requested a traffic report of how many cars go by in the area.  She 
then stated that she has not yet received all the information on the price difference between 
putting the box at the east end versus the north end.  She said that the voters want to get 
this done right, and they want it done before October 1.  
 
Lastly, Ms. Grubbe reminded the board members that if they’re going to go into executive 
session, they need to open the door once they come out of executive session.   
 
Motion to go into executive session for personnel matters and security matters was made by 
Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  A roll call vote was taken.  
 
Mr. Ferrell- absent (excused) 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
 
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 10:00 a.m.  
 
Motion to come out of executive session and go back into regular session was made by Mr. 
Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 
10:20 a.m.  
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 10:21 a.m.  
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 4

