The pre-election meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, May 1st, 2023 at 2:00 p.m.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member               Present 
                        (R) Nancy C. McKeen, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Amy Grubbe and Caleb Stidham 
 
Mr. Monaghan motioned to approve the minutes from the April 21st meeting, with Ms. 
Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated there are no overvoted absentee ballots for the 
board to review at this time.  She then reviewed numbers for early and absentee voting.  
We mailed 205 ballots and have received 163, which means we have 42 outstanding.  Of the 
163 we have received, 160 are countable.  For the three that are uncountable, we have sent 
those voters an 11-s supplemental form.  We had 855 people vote early, in our office.  We 
had two hand carry voters, three nursing home voters, zero military voters, and zero 
overseas voters.  
 
Mr. Ferrell stated we need a motion to recess.  Ms. Crescimano stated before we recess, she 
would like to make a few comments regarding the investigation by the HR director.  She is 
going to read her statement because she doesn’t want to forget anything.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated this is not on the agenda.  We don’t do this at pre-election meetings.  Ms. 
Crescimano again stated she has a few words to say.  Mr. Ferrell replied, “You can say it 
tomorrow night.”  Ms. Crescimano said, “I’m saying it now.”  Mr. Ferrell said, “We need 
to recess.  Thank you for coming.”  He and Mr. Monaghan then exited the room.  Ms. 
Crescimano read from her prepared statement, which is below:  
 
“I would like to make a few comments regarding the HR director’s report sent to the board 
last week.  Director Wilson made clear that the accusations made against our Director by 
Mr. Ferrell were entirely unfounded. 
 
The director, along with the citizens of this community, deserve to know what occurred.  At 
our last board meeting, Mr. Ferrell indicated that a complaint had been made to him that 
the director spent four hours in the middle of a work day at a winery and was in violation 
of county policy.  This was entirely untrue.  Mr. Ferrell or this alleged complainant lied for 
the purpose of pursing a political agenda.   
 
The truth is that Mr. Jones took his lunch break on March 29th to assist another county 
department which he was previously employed.  He went to a dilapidated structure to assist 
the county in a project that he spent months working on in his prior capacity with that 
department.  According to Director Wilson, Mr. Jones’s actions weren’t just permissive, 
they are encouraged.  
 
The most disturbing part of this story is that the board was not informed who the 
complainant was or what evidence they had that this event had occurred.   
 
I have had the chance to speak with former board of elections employees who have felt 
harassed and uncomfortable with the behavior with current and former members of this 
board.  I fear that Mr. Jones may have been followed by an agent of a political party in an 
effort to intimidate and undermine Mr. Jones.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2

This occurrence has been a fiasco and this board should be ashamed of its conduct.  I 
apologize to our director on behalf of the board and demand that all four of us do better in 
the treatment of our staff.  In particular, Mr. Ferrell owes our Director an apology for 
perpetuating falsehoods regarding his performance and leading the charge to subject him 
to an unfounded investigation.  Additionally, we all deserve to know if there was a 
complainant and if so who.  Mr. Jones may need to be extended protections to ensure that 
he isn’t been (sic) stalked or harassed by unbalanced actors pursing a political agenda.”  
 
Ms. Crescimano stated she would read her statement again tomorrow, when all four board 
members are present.  Ms. McKeen stated she agreed with everything Ms. Crescimano said 
and that she is frankly a little annoyed by the whole thing.  She said if you’re going to make 
an accusation, the board should have gotten the name of the person making it.  She then 
apologized to Mr. Jones.   
 
Ms. Crescimano stated she was bamboozled at the last meeting because the investigation 
wasn’t on the agenda.  She noted that Mr. Ferrell just walked out on a non-agenda item, 
and that she should have walked out on a non-agenda item.  Ms. McKeen said she should 
have, too.  Ms. Crescimano then stated that in the future, she will walk out on every non-
agenda item.   
 
Ms. James stated it is now 2:06 p.m. and she guesses we are recessed now.  We will 
reconvene tomorrow at 7:00 p.m.  
 
On Tuesday, May 2nd at 7:04 p.m., the board reconvened with all members present.  Amy 
Grubbe and MaryAnn Groot were present as guests.  Ms. James stated there are no 
overvoted absentee ballots for the board to review.  She also explained the process the 
board would follow once the polls close at 7:30 p.m.  
 
The board members discussed rescheduling the official canvass and certification.  Ms. 
James stated her recommendation is to conduct the official canvass on Wednesday, May 
17th at 9:00 a.m. and the official certification/regular meeting that same day at 3:00 p.m.  
The board members agreed that should be fine.   
 
At 7:30 p.m., Mr. Jones and Ms. James checked the dropbox for absentee ballots.  They 
then scanned the last of the absentee ballots, tabulated the absentee results, and posted the 
absentee results on the website.  As the memory sticks came back from the polling 
locations, they tabulated and posted the election day results, too.   
 
At 9:06 p.m., Ms. James reviewed unofficial results.  She stated that voter turnout was 
23.58%.  According to unofficial results, both school bond issues failed, but the three local 
liquor options in Sandusky G passed.  Mr. Ferrell asked how many people voted on the 
local options; Ms. James stated 87 out of about 1,300.  Mr. Monaghan asked about voter 
turnout for Edison and Perkins Schools.  Ms. James stated she would email the board that.  
The board members signed the Unofficial Results Certification page to submit to the 
Secretary of State’s Office.   
 
Mr. Monaghan made a motion to adjourn, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 9:10 p.m.  
 
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2

