The pre-election meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, November 4th, 2024 at 4:00 p.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member   Present 
                        (D) MaryAnn Groot, Member               Present 
                        (R) John C. Adams, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Jason Hinners from Erie County Prosecutor’s Office and Amy 
Grubbe 
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, reviewed the numbers for absentee voting.  20,118 
absentee ballots were sent this election.  The breakdown is as follows:  
• Four Accessible 
• 46 Curbside 
• 84 Handcarry 
• Three Hospital 
• 12,290 In Office 
• 7,411 Mail 
• 143 Nursing Home 
• 79 UOCAVA Email 
• 58 UOCAVA Mail 
 
19,492 ballots have been returned.  Ms. Crescimano and Mr. Adams commented on the 
better flow for early, in person voting.  Ms. James stated this election we had the most early 
voters we’ve ever had.  Yesterday we processed 442 early voters in four hours.  
 
Alex Jones, Director, presented the overvoted absentee ballots to the board.  The top right 
corner of the ballot indicates what the person overvoted on.  The board members took 
some time to review the ballots.   
 
Ms. Groot stated she knows there is no way to erase pen, but it clearly looks like on one 
they were trying to correct what they marked.  It almost looks like whiteout.  Ms. 
Crescimano stated she can’t make that determination.  Mr. Adams stated it was hard to 
say for sure.  Ms. Groot stated that it was the same with another ballot.  If you look at their 
other marks, the others are definitely darker whereas the other candidate mark is very 
light.  Ms. James asked if we wanted to put those two ballots in the middle to vote on 
separately.  Ms. Groot said the other two would definitely vote no.  The board members 
commented on how it was hard to make sense of some ballots with arrows and where they 
were pointing.  They agreed not to count those overvotes.   
 
Ms. Groot motioned to not count the overvoted ballots in specific races, with Ms. 
Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if there was anything else.  Ms. Groot asked if the polling locations are 
the same as they were in March; Mr. Jones said yes.  Ms. Grubbe stated she would be here 
tomorrow as an observer.  She also asked if anyone calls the Board of Elections to ask for a 
ride to the polls, to let her know.  They have volunteers that are giving rides tomorrow.  
Ms. Grubbe also asked the position on political attire at the polls.  Ms. Crescimano stated 
that to her, if you can tell who it’s for, then you shouldn’t be wearing it.  Mr. Adams stated 
that the Secretary of State’s opinion is that attire cannot mention candidates or issues by 
name.  However, you cannot stop them from voting.  Ms. Grubbe asked if there were signs 
posted at the polling locations saying no political attire.  The board members confirmed 
that was correct.  Ms. Grubbe stated that a few weeks ago during early voting, a voter 
came in with a hat with a candidate’s name on it.  She also suggested that we should have 
someone out in the lobby during early voting to help direct voters.   
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2

Ms. Groot stated that she knows we train our poll workers, but do we train our voters?  
She knows it’s too late for this election, but can we train them on how to mark a ballot 
correctly?  Mr. Jones stated there’s instructions at the top of the ballot, but people still 
overvote.  Mr. Ferrell commented that it can be hard for people to fill in the bubbles if they 
have medical conditions.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if the Health Department location would be okay.  Mr. Jones stated we 
would have signs out, and the Sheriff will have someone posted there since it’s a higher 
traffic location.  Law enforcement is aware of the high traffic locations, such as the Health 
Department, Faith Church, and The Chapel.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to recess, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members voted 
yes; motion carried.  Board recessed at 4:18 p.m.  
 
On Tuesday, November 5th at 7:00 p.m., Ms. Groot motioned to reconvene, with Mr. 
Adams seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. James presented one overvoted ballot to the board.  She and Mr. Jones remade the 
ballot because the voter clearly crossed off one choice and marked another for the same 
race.  The board members reviewed the ballots.  Ms. Groot motioned to accept the remade 
ballot, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
At 7:30 p.m., the polls closed.  Mr. Jones and Ms. James checked the dropbox, then 
uploaded the absentee results.  As the poll workers returned the memory sticks from the 
election day polling locations, they uploaded election day results, too.   
 
At 9:53 p.m., the board reviewed the unofficial results.  Total ballots cast is 39,641.  
Election Day ballots cast are 19,993.  Absentee ballots cast are 19,648.  Turnout is 73.06%.  
The board members, director, and deputy director signed the Unofficial Certification of 
Results page.  Ms. Groot motioned to accept the unofficial results to send to the Secretary 
of State’s office, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
Ms. Groot motioned to adjourn, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 9:56 p.m.  
 
 
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2

