The special meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, December 29th, 2023 at 3:30 p.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member   Present 
                        (D) MaryAnn Groot, Member               Present 
                        (R) Nancy C. McKeen, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Amy Grubbe 
 
The purpose of the special meeting was to approve the Election Administration Plan, 
candidate petitions, candidate name changes, and issues for the March 2024 Primary, and 
to consider a polling location change.   
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated that she emailed the Election Administration Plan 
to the board members last week.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to adopt the EAP, with Ms. 
Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  The board members, 
director, and deputy director signed the EAP to submit to the Secretary of State’s Office.   
 
Ms. Groot motioned to approve the petitions for the candidates listed on the agenda.  Ms. 
Crescimano seconded the motion, but noted that we received a letter regarding the 
candidacy of Steven Kraus.  Alex Jones, Director, stated that the question today is, “Did 
Mr. Kraus submit sufficient petitions with enough valid signatures?”  It is the staff’s 
opinion that he did.  The protest letter is a separate question, which is, “Is Mr. Kraus 
qualified to hold the office?”  After reviewing the Elections Officials Manual and 
communicating with both the Erie County Prosecutor’s Office and the legal team in 
Columbus, we think we need to schedule a hearing to determine that question.  The board 
then voted on the motion to approve the candidate petitions.  All board members voted yes; 
motion carried.  The approved candidate petitions are as follows:  
 
• Alicia W. Roshong, State Representative, 89th District, Democrat 
• Steven W. Kraus, State Representative, 89th District, Republican 
• Douglas James Swearingen Jr., State Representative, 89th District, Republican 
• Nicholas J. Smith, County Recorder, Republican 
• Randolph E. Drewyor, County Treasurer, Democrat 
• Brian A. Baxter, Coroner, Republican 
• Robert C. DeLamatre, Judge of Court of Common Pleas, Juvenile Division, 
Republican 
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to accept the candidate name change requests listed on the 
agenda.  Ms. Groot seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
The approved name changes are as follows:  
 
• Randolph E. Drewyor to Randy Drewyor 
• Douglas James Swearingen Jr. to D.J. Swearingen 
 
Mr. Jones stated that Patina Porch in Sandusky O submitted paperwork for a local option.  
Their forms were sufficiently completed, and they had enough valid signatures.  Ms. 
Crescimano asked how many signatures were required.  Mr. Jones stated that since it is for 
Sunday sales, they needed 50.  Ms. Groot motioned to approve the issue, with Ms. 
Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2

Mr. Jones stated that at the last meeting, we discussed the Sandusky City Service Complex 
polling location.  The Sandusky Municipal Court has moved into the Service Complex, so 
we think it’s going to be tight next year.  Mr. Jones and Ms. James visited the Health 
Department last week to view their conference area.  There are about 50 to 55 parking 
spaces in the back lot, which Mr. Palmucci from the Health Department stated would be 
cleared for poll workers and voters on Election Day.  The conference room has enough 
space for about 35 to 45 voting stations, plus space for workers.  There is a kitchen and two 
bathrooms, and everything is ADA accessible.  It is Mr. Jones’ recommendation to move 
Sandusky O and P from the Service Complex to the Health Department, which already 
hosts Sandusky M.   
 
Ms. Groot asked if we would provide more signs to the Health Department.  Mr. Jones 
stated yes.  He also noted that we have many large A-frame signs we can use for parking 
and voting signs, and for redirecting voters at the old location.  Ms. Groot asked if we 
notify the voters.  Mr. Jones stated that we notify them by mail, and we’ll place a notice in 
the newspaper.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the polling location change as 
recommended, with Ms. McKeen seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
  
Mr. Ferrell asked if there was anything further.  Ms. Crescimano asked about the hearing 
for Mr. Kraus.  Mr. Jones stated he would contact Jason Hinners at the Prosecutor’s Office 
to see when he is available, and then contact the board members about a hearing date.  Per 
the elections calendar from the SOS office, we must certify the candidates to our 
overlapping counties no later than January 9th.   
 
Ms. Groot asked if Mr. Jones had heard anything further about the people who took signs 
last Election Day.  Mr. Jones stated he had not.   
 
Ms. Grubbe asked if we place notices on the radio about polling location changes.  Mr. 
Jones stated he was not sure if we did in the past, but it’s been a priority for us to rethink 
how we are communicating with the public.  We intend on using both the newspaper and 
the radio to inform people of changes.  Ms. Grubbe also asked if the letter protesting Mr. 
Kraus’ candidacy was about signatures.  Mr. Ferrell replied that the letter referenced the 
theft at Catawba.  Ms. Grubbe asked for a copy of the letter.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to adjourn, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 3:40 p.m.  
 
 
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2

