The pre-election meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Board Member William Monaghan on Monday, November 1st, 2021 at 4:07 p.m.   
 
Roll Call:      (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present via phone (did not    
make any motions, second any motions, or vote on any motions) 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Sue Brown and Gery Gross from Prosecutor’s Office and Amy 
Grubbe 
 
Motion to approve the minutes from the October 22nd meeting was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated that the board would need to review overvoted 
ballots.  Some were true over-votes, while others simply needed to be re-made due to tears 
or timing marks.  She stated that she and Director Lori Salyers already re-made the ballots 
how they anticipated the board would vote.  The board took a few minutes to review the 
ballots.   
 
Motion to accept the first three ballots as staff re-made them was made by Mr. Smith, 
seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to accept the next ballot as staff re-made it was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded 
by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to accept the next ballot as staff re-made it was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded 
by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
The last four ballots were not true over-votes; rather, they had to be re-made due to tears 
or timing marks.  The board took a few minutes to review these ballots.  Motion to accept 
these ballots as staff re-made them was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.   
 
Next, Ms. Salyers stated that an individual came in to vote during early voting, and we had 
him registered in Vermilion City, in the precinct Vermilion 2-B.  However, he stated that 
he lives in Vermilion Township.  Ms. Salyers looked up his address on the auditor’s 
website, and discovered that he indeed lives in Vermilion Township, specifically in the 
precinct Vermilion Township #1.  Ms. Salyers showed the board members what she found 
on the auditor’s website, and asked the board members if it was okay to change this voter’s 
address in our voter registration system from Vermilion 2-B to Vermilion Township #1.  
The board took a few minutes to review the paperwork Ms. Salyers presented.  Motion to 
make the change was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to take a five-minute recess was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  
Motion carried.  Board recessed at 4:26 p.m.  
 
Motion to return to regular session was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  
Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 4:39 p.m. to discuss the issue of a 
voter with covid.  Mr. Monaghan stated he heard from the newspaper that someone was 
denied their right to vote today because of covid.  Ms. Salyers stated that was not true.  Mr. 
Gross stated that the voter in question did vote.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 4

Ms. Salyers then further explained the situation.   She stated that she received a phone call 
today from a voter with covid who wanted to vote.  Ms. Salyers contacted Jeff Hobday of 
the SOS legal department and told him her concerns.  Mr. Hobday instructed Ms. Salyers 
to contact the county prosecutor and the county health department, so she did.  When Ms. 
Salyers spoke to the voter again, she told the voter what both Gery Gross of the 
Prosecutor’s Office and Pete Schade of the Health Department said, and referred her to 
both of them.  The voter asked Ms. Salyers “Are you denying me my right to vote?”  Ms. 
Salyers’ response was “Absolutely not.”  Ms. Salyers stated that the voter came, she voted 
curbside, and she left.   
 
Mr. Gross stated that the voter in question called him today and he spoke with her.  He 
stated it came down to a disagreement on interpreting the phrase “physically unable to 
enter the polling location.”  Mr. Gross then quoted O.R.C. 3501.29, which states, “The 
board of elections shall permit any handicapped elector who travels to that elector’s polling 
place, but who is unable to enter the polling place, to vote, with the assistance of two polling 
place officials of major political parties, in the vehicle that conveyed that elector to the 
polling place, or to receive and cast that elector’s ballot at the door of the polling place.”  
Mr. Gross further explained that the ORC defines handicapped as “having lost the use of 
one or both legs, one or both arms, or any combination thereof, or being blind or so 
severely disabled as to be unable to move about without the aid of crutches or a 
wheelchair.”   
 
Mr. Gross stated he doesn’t think being covid positive fits in the definition as provided in 
the ORC.  He then reviewed the process of curbside voting as outlined in the current 
directive.  He stated that in last year’s directive, which was limited to the 2020 primary and 
2020 general, there was language referencing doing curbside voting due to covid.  However, 
the SOS did not include this language in the current directive.  Mr. Gross stated that some 
people might argue that if they have covid, then they are physically unable.  Mr. Gross 
stated he thinks that’s a stretch.  He also stated that there is zero case law on this issue.   
 
Mr. Gross then stated that the other factor is there is no pre-voting test of any kind.  We 
cannot ask if people are sick, or if they are vaccinated.  The only reason we would know 
anything about someone’s covid status is if they volunteer it, which they’re not required to 
do.   
 
Mr. Gross then stated that he spoke with Jeff Hobday at the SOS.  Mr. Hobday generally 
agrees that you either read this strictly as physically unable to enter like the ORC says, or 
anybody who drives up and wants to vote curbside, votes curbside, because we can’t ask 
them questions.  Mr. Krabill stated he thinks curbside voting was intended to be the 
exception, not the rule.   
 
Mr. Gross stated he thinks the SOS office probably thought covid was not that big of an 
issue this year, so they didn’t address it.  In interpreting statutes, if something was in the 
law, but the new version of the law doesn’t have it in there anymore, then they did that on 
purpose.  Ms. Brown added that the directives with the broader language expired when the 
state’s emergency health status expired.   
 
Mr. Krabill asked what takes precedence: a quarantine order by the Department of 
Health, or the constitutional right to vote.  Mr. Krabill noted that he is not a lawyer, but he 
thinks it would be the constitutional right to vote.  Mr. Gross then read the definition of 
quarantine according to ORC 3701.13.  “Quarantine means the separation or restriction of 
movement of one more individuals who have come into direct contact with someone who 
has been medically diagnosed with a communicable or contagious disease.”  Mr. Gross 
noted it doesn’t say you’re never allowed to go anywhere.

has been medically diagnosed with a communicable or contagious disease.”  Mr. Gross 
noted it doesn’t say you’re never allowed to go anywhere.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 4

Mr. Gross then stated that in speaking with Columbus, they had one possible 
recommendation.  If somebody does call and says they need to vote curbside, an allowable 
question would be, “Are you unable to physically enter the polling location?”  If we ask 
them that, and they say yes, then we curbside vote them.  Mr. Gross iterated that we are 
not allowed to ask why they are physically unable; we just take them at their word.  Then, 
in the process of curbside voting, the poll workers would take appropriate precautions, 
such as wearing p.p.e. and disinfecting.  
 
Mr. Krabill stated he’s glad we are having this conversation now, because it’s not out of the 
realm of possibility that this situation comes up tomorrow.  Mr. Smith asked if the voter 
with covid voted today, and Ms. Salyers and Mr. Gross both stated yes.  Mr. Gross also 
stated that if a voter answers “no” to the physically unable question, then they would not 
curbside vote, unless the voter in question says, “Oh, you’ve taken away my right to vote.”  
Mr. Gross stated that we should keep track of the people who say that, because we may be 
hearing from them again.  Mr. Gross also stated that in his phone conversation with the 
voter with covid today, the voter suggested we keep track of all the people we’re not letting 
vote.  Mr. Gross’ response was, “We’re not letting people not vote, including you.” 
 
Mr. Krabill suggested letting the poll workers know about the “physically unable” question 
they are to ask people who want to vote curbside.  Ms. Salyers stated that we would call all 
the VLMs tonight and let them know.  Mr. Gross suggested emailing it to them as well.   
 
Ms. Grubbe then stated she had a few comments.  She stated she wants to make sure that 
everyone understands that no matter what the situation, if a voter says they cannot 
physically come in, even if it is due to covid, then they are permitted to vote curbside.  Ms. 
Grubbe asked, “Is that what I’m hearing from you, Gery?”  Mr. Gross replied yes.   
 
Ms. Grubbe then referenced ORC 3501.29, which states, “At any polling place that is 
exempted from compliance by the secretary of state, the board of elections shall permit any 
handicapped elector who travels to that elector’s polling place, but who is unable to enter 
the polling place, to vote, with the assistance of two polling place officials of major political 
parties, in the vehicle that conveyed that elector to the polling place, or to receive and cast 
that elector’s ballot at the door of the polling place.”  Mr. Gross replied that he is not 
aware of any polling places in Erie County that are exempted.  We’re just going to assume 
that in all polling locations, we have the same policy.  Ms. Grubbe then stated, “I 
appreciate all the time and effort that went into this.”  
 
Motion to recess until 7 p.m. tomorrow was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  
Motion carried.  Board recessed at 5:10 p.m.  
 
On Tuesday, November 2nd, motion to come out of recess and return to regular session was 
made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Board resumed regular 
session at 7:04 p.m.  
 
Ms. Salyers stated that she and Ms. James remade two ballots.  One was an over-vote, but 
the voter crossed off the extra name and put their initials next to it.  The other ballot had to 
be remade due to a tear.  The board members took a few moments to review these ballots.  
Motion to accept the ballots as staff re-made them was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by 
Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked if there was anything else.  Ms. Salyers stated she wanted to discuss 
the issue of poll worker pay for individuals, but she wasn’t sure if this should happen in 
open session.   
 
Motion to go into executive session to discuss poll worker personnel was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  A roll call vote was taken.  
 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
 
Page 3 of 4

Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 7:06 p.m.  
 
Motion to return to regular session was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  
Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 7:22 p.m.  Ms. Salyers stated that at 
7:30 p.m., she and Ms. James would check the dropbox.   
 
Motion to recess was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board recessed at 7:22 p.m.  
 
Once the polls closed at 7:30 p.m., Ms. Salyers and Ms. James tabulated and uploaded the 
absentee results.  As the sticks came back from the polling locations, they tabulated and 
uploaded the election night results.   
 
Motion to leave recess and return to regular session was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by 
Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Board resumed regular session at 10:17 p.m.  
 
Motion to sign the unofficial results page and then adjourn the meeting was made by Mr. 
Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  The board members signed the results 
and adjourned at 10:18 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 4

