The post-election audit and special meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was 
called to order by Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, November 30th, 2022 at 8:04 a.m.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Rachel Ruffer from SOS Office, Jason Hinners from Erie County 
Prosecutor’s Office, Caleb Stidham, Debra Nickoloff, Mary Ann Groot, and Amy Grubbe 
 
Mr. Smith made a motion to go into recess until 11:30 a.m., with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  
All board members voted yes; motion carried.  Board recessed at 8:05 a.m.  
 
While in recess, the bipartisan board staff conducted the post-election audit on the voting 
machines randomly selected by the board at their last meeting.   
 
Mr. Krabill made a motion to reconvene, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.  Board resumed regular session at 11:28 a.m.  
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated that we audited three races: Governor, U.S. 
Senator, and Secretary of State.  The three voting machines we audited were the Sandusky 
H and I DS200, the Margaretta Township 3 and 4 DS200, and the Perkins Township 8 and 
9 DS200.  The results from our hand count match perfectly with the numbers from the 
machines.   
 
Mr. Smith made a motion to certify the results of the audit, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  
All board members voted yes; motion carried.  The board members, Director Lori Salyers, 
and Ms. James signed the audit paperwork to submit to the SOS office.   
 
The next item on the agenda was “Vote on hiring for the temporary Republican clerk 
position.”  Mr. Smith stated that he and Mr. Krabill interviewed two candidates on 
Monday and that he has a recommendation.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that he looked at the applications, and that he hired a lot of people in 
business career.  He also stated he has never seen an application where the person writes 
down one employer.  He then questioned how many people the applicant who only wrote 
down one employer has worked for.   
 
Mr. Smith stated that with both candidates, he and Mr. Krabill talked about employment 
history.  One applicant has recently moved into the area.  They have done manufacturing 
work and mortgage work.  The other applicant has worked for the Erie County land bank, 
Sandusky City Schools, the State Auditor’s Office, and the Stark County Republican Party.  
One applicant has a degree and another applicant is working on a degree.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated that both candidates commented on the fact that they only had one box 
to fill in and didn’t understand why they couldn’t provide their full work history.  Mr. 
Krabill mentioned this to Matt Wilson of the county HR department.  Mr. Krabill stated 
Mr. Wilson was not aware applicants could only put down one piece of work history.  Mr. 
Monaghan commented that the other applicant did put down more than one job.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated he had a question about some of the resolutions that were passed and the 
one creating this position.  He stated we are creating a new position, but this board has 
never approved a job description.  He stated he finds that very interesting.  
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that at the November 7th meeting, his Republican colleagues made 
resolutions after the agenda had already stopped.  He then read the following excerpt from 
the approved November 7th minutes:  
 
 
Page 1 of 5

“Mr. Smith motioned to take a five-minute recess.  Mr. Krabill seconded the motion….Mr. 
Krabill stated he hears what Mr. Hinners is saying, but this is not a special meeting.  It is a 
regularly scheduled meeting of this board.  Mr. Hinners stated that it shows on our 
calendar as a pre-election meeting.  Mr. Krabill replied that that is the title of the meeting.  
However, he does not think that moves it into the category of special meeting.  Mr. 
Monaghan stated that Mr. Hinners is our attorney.  He then said, ‘You’re not our attorney, 
Jeff.’  Mr. Krabill replied that he does not want to delay these matters any longer.”  
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that Mr. Krabill made some moves at the November 7th meeting that 
he is questioning.  Mr. Krabill stated that is fine; we can each have our opinion.  However, 
the matter before the board right now is filling the temporary Republican clerk position.  
Mr. Ferrell stated he disagrees.  Mr. Monaghan then read another excerpt from the 
approved November 7th minutes:  
 
“Mr. Smith asked what our limits are in terms of the agenda and what we can do.  Mr. 
Hinners stated that if it’s a regular meeting, then you technically don’t need an agenda, or 
you can add items to the agenda.  However, this meeting is billed as a pre-election meeting.  
Adding additional items goes beyond the scope of that.” 
 
Mr. Monaghan indicated he thinks Mr. Smith and Mr. Krabill are saying that our attorney 
is wrong.  Mr. Smith replied, “We had an executive session about imminent litigation, so 
I’m not going to comment on any of that at this point in time.”   
 
Mr. Ferrell then suggested talking about what happened in open session on November 7th.  
He asked how is a position being authorized to be advertised when there has never been a 
position created?  Mr. Smith replied that it was his understanding that the vote created the 
position.  Mr. Ferrell stated that we’ve never created a position without a job description.  
Mr. Smith stated it was his understanding that Human Resources would put together a job 
description.  Mr. Ferrell stated he has never seen the description.  
 
Mr. Krabill stated this is a temporary position that does not go beyond the end of February 
or the first Monday in March.  He also stated it is clearly a training position.  Mr. Ferrell 
asked, “Training for what?”  Mr. Krabill replied that we have a pending Republican 
resignation.  Mr. Ferrell responded that the person retiring is a director, not a clerk.  Mr. 
Krabill stated he understands that; they came up with the name to facilitate the process 
and the advertising of the position.   
 
Mr. Monaghan then stated the position you are wanting to fill is the clerk’s position, not 
the director’s position.  Mr. Krabill stated no; we are trying to fill a temporary position.  
Mr. Ferrell asked why we are creating a temporary position when there is no vacancy.  Mr. 
Krabill stated it is to learn the office, because we know we’ll have a Republican position to 
fill.   
 
Mr. Ferrell then recounted his perspective of what happened before the November 7th 
meeting.  He called Mr. Monaghan Friday or Saturday to let him know he would be in 
Columbus.  Mr. Smith texted Mr. Ferrell and asked to speak with him.  Mr. Ferrell told 
Mr. Smith he would not be at the meeting.  It is Mr. Ferrell’s opinion that Mr. Smith and 
Mr. Krabill had conversations about Mr. Ferrell not being at the meeting and passing these 
positions.  Mr. Ferrell then commented on the resolution to move to the county’s policies.  
He said one caveat of that was raising the pay for the Director and Deputy Director; 
however, he did not see that mentioned in the resolution.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated those are matters that must be addressed come the first Monday of 
March.  Mr. Ferrell replied that it must be part of the budget process.  Mr. Krabill 
commented on the conversations and background work with the commissioners and

March.  Mr. Ferrell replied that it must be part of the budget process.  Mr. Krabill 
commented on the conversations and background work with the commissioners and 
County Administrator Hank Solowiej.  He also stated that because of the study HR 
conducted on salaries, the commissioners are prepared to address the salary issues for 
Director and Deputy Director.  Mr. Ferrell asked if we had that in writing.  Mr. Krabill 
stated no.  He stated the commissioners would not act until it is part of the budget process.   
 
 
Page 2 of 5

Mr. Ferrell stated that when he was a commissioner, elected officials had the opportunity 
to go to commission meetings and speak in open session about what they need and how 
their responsibilities have changed.  He then stated he thinks we are violating county 
policy.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated the commissioners and Mr. Solowiej are aware we are trying to fill this 
temporary position.  They also know we need to fund it.  They are just waiting on a 
decision to be made by this board.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked how they can fund a position that hasn’t been approved by this board.  
Mr. Smith asked Mr. Ferrell if he had read the recent commission meeting minutes.  Mr. 
Ferrell replied he hasn’t received them.  Mr. Smith stated he hasn’t received them either, 
but it is his understanding that after this board took action at our November 7th meeting, 
the commissioners approved funding for this position.   
 
Mr. Monaghan questioned why we need someone to come in three months early, whether 
it’s going to be a clerk’s position or a director’s position.  That has not happened with the 
last four or five people who have been hired for this office.  He also mentioned one of the 
candidates and said he wanted to find out more about the jobs he has held.  Mr. Smith 
stated that if Mr. Monaghan wants to conduct interviews, that is his prerogative.  Mr. 
Monaghan again stated he was against hiring someone three months early.  He stated that 
you don’t do that in business, so why would you do it in government?  
 
Mr. Krabill stated that the history in this office is that we bring someone in with no 
experience and drop them in the frying pan.  That has been the norm, but Mr. Krabill 
thinks that is not a good model.  He stated that if the commissioners are willing to give us 
three months to support the ongoing efforts of this office, then that’s a blessing.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that you’re worried about our budget, but all of a sudden it’s okay to 
spend the money for three months for a temporary clerk, when the temporary clerk can get 
everything they need to know within a week or two.  Mr. Krabill told Mr. Monaghan that 
that is your opinion.  Mr. Monaghan stated we are all entitled to our opinions.  Mr. Krabill 
stated he was on the same page as Mr. Smith to make a motion to hire a particular person 
to come in for three months to learn the job.  Mr. Krabill then asked if he should make the 
motion or if Mr. Smith wanted to make the motion.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that before we make any motions, he has additional questions.  He wants 
to know why this was rammed through at the pre-election meeting when all four of the 
board members would be present the next day.  Mr. Ferrell thinks it is because he was not 
there.   
 
Mr. Krabill responded that he did not know of Mr. Ferrell’s potential absence from the 
pre-election meeting until two hours before the meeting.  Mr. Krabill stated he wanted to 
go forward with the motions because we have a history of not addressing the issue.  He also 
stated that he learned a week prior to the pre-election meeting that we were on the edge of 
a fiscal cliff with our staff.  Due to budgetary issues, our payroll accounts were short.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked, “So then we go ahead and create a new position when our payroll 
accounts are short?”  Mr. Krabill replied that these are separate issues, and they have both 
been addressed.  Mr. Ferrell asked how.  Mr. Krabill responded that the county 
commissioners voted to fund both.   
 
Mr. Ferrell told Mr. Krabill that as a member, he can make a motion on anything he 
wants.  He could have made these motions on November 8th, but instead he made these 
motions on November 7th against the counsel of Mr. Hinners.  Mr. Krabill replied, “You do 
recall that it was on the agenda and you had it removed.”  He then stated that you can’t 
complain and in the same context have cancelled the vote.  Mr. Ferrell replied that he can

recall that it was on the agenda and you had it removed.”  He then stated that you can’t 
complain and in the same context have cancelled the vote.  Mr. Ferrell replied that he can 
complain when a job description and position are created without this board having taken 
any action.   
 
 
Page 3 of 5

Mr. Monaghan asked where the position was advertised.  Mr. Krabill stated it was turned 
over to HR and posted internally within the county.  Mr. Smith stated it was also 
advertised in the Sandusky Register.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked what the intentions for this clerk are.  Is it to catapult them into Ms. 
Salyers’ position?  Mr. Smith responded that presumably, he and Mr. Ferrell will both be 
here at the reorganization meeting.  However, Mr. Monaghan and Mr. Krabill may not be.  
There is a lot of time between now and the reorganization.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated he is on this board to make sure it runs correctly for all citizens of 
Erie County, whether they are Republicans, Democrats, or Independents.  He stated he is 
here until at least March 1st, and he is going to run the board the way it should be run.  Mr. 
Smith stated he understands that but said if Mr. Monaghan does not seek another term on 
the board, then respectfully, he will not have a say in who the director and deputy director 
will be.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated, “Let me ask again.  Is the intention that this person is hired to catapult 
them into Lori’s position?”  Mr. Smith stated, “I would not answer that question because I 
would be presuming to speak for other people.”   
 
Mr. Krabill stated that we are not hiring a director today.  We are not trying to take away 
any authority the new board will have.  We are looking to hire someone to come in and fill 
some role, depending on whatever decision the future board makes.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that this position would be at a rate of $17, when the original motion 
was $19 an hour.  Mr. Krabill stated that was a mistake.  Mr. Smith stated that it was 
changed when Ms. Salyers told the board what the two current clerks are making.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that you still want this employee to start at a higher rate than the 
Democratic clerk’s starting salary.  He also stated that the Democratic clerk did not receive 
a raise until the completion of her probationary period.  He then said, “I know we have two 
ladies that are in the office that are interested in Lori’s position.”  Mr. Krabill responded, 
“That issue does not ripen until the first Monday in March.”  Mr. Ferrell stated he thinks 
Mr. Krabill is being disingenuous.  Mr. Ferrell thinks the person Mr. Krabill wants to put 
in Ms. Salyers’ position is one of the people who sent in an application.  Mr. Smith stated 
he thinks Mr. Ferrell is making assumptions about what he thinks is going to happen when 
the parties meet to nominate people for the board.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if accuracy in the job is key to the staff members’ positions.  Mr. Krabill 
replied, “There’s a lot of things that are important to the position.”  Mr. Ferrell 
commented on the importance of accuracy and the image we present to the public.  He then 
suggested going online and looking at the Erie County landbank meeting minutes.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated that Mr. Ferrell would have an opportunity to vote in March.  In the 
meantime, he is going to make a motion that the temporary Republican clerk position be 
filled at the rate that was stated by Alex Jones.  Mr. Smith seconded the motion.   
 
Mr. Ferrell noted it has been moved and seconded, then called for more discussion.  He 
asked Mr. Hinners what his input is.  Mr. Hinners asked in what way.  Mr. Ferrell said, 
“the creation of a position that wasn’t authorized by this board.”  Mr. Hinners stated he 
has not looked at the county’s HR policy regarding that.  He then asked if the motion made 
on November 7th indicated that the county’s HR policy would not commence until March 
1st.  Mr. Ferrell stated yes.  He then stated that we harken back to the 2009 resolution that 
a previous board made, regarding comp time and how employees are hired.  He also stated 
he has not seen the job description.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 5

Mr. Krabill stated that when HR was contacted and they advertised the position, there was 
no conversation.  HR knew we were creating a position, they advertised it, and they 
forwarded us the applications.  Mr. Krabill thinks if there had been some fatal flaw in this, 
HR would have said something.  Mr. Ferrell responded he has no questions regarding HR 
Director Matt Wilson and his capabilities.  Mr. Ferrell’s issue is that there was no job 
posting or description authorized by this board.  He does not know how you can advertise 
something the board hasn’t authorized.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated he would like to see where Mr. Jones has worked previously.  He also 
questioned how long Mr. Jones would be with the Board of Elections.  Mr. Monaghan 
stated we’ve got someone who has been here five years, and he thinks other board members 
are ready to leapfrog over the top of her.  Mr. Ferrell asked for a roll call vote on Mr. 
Krabill’s motion.   
 
Mr. Ferrell- no 
Mr. Monaghan- no 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
 
The motion did not carry.  Mr. Ferrell asked if there were any questions from the audience.  
Ms. Grubbe asked what happens with a two-two tie.  Mr. Krabill stated “no action.”  Mr. 
Smith stated he does not think this is something we would send to the Secretary of State; 
Mr. Krabill agreed.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated he wants to say one more thing before we adjourn.  He feels our utmost 
responsibility is transparency to the public.  This board has strived for that, and he would 
hate to rupture that trust and transparency.  
 
Mr. Krabill questioned the 2023 meeting schedule in the board members’ folders.  Ms. 
James stated the board adopted the schedule several months ago.  The upcoming Sandusky 
special election and the reorganization meeting are not yet on the schedule; however, the 
board can discuss that at the December meeting.   
 
Mr. Smith motioned to adjourn, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted 
yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 12:02 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 5

