The official canvass meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Temporary Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, March 13th at 9:00 a.m.      
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Temporary Chairman Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member               Present 
                        (R) Nancy C. McKeen, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Jason Hinners from Erie County Prosecutor’s Office, Rachel Ruffer 
from SOS office, Amy Grubbe, and Alex Jones 
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, reviewed absentee ballots received after the election.  
She stated that we received three and all are eligible to be counted.  The first two were sent 
in the same envelope which was postmarked on February 22nd.  The third one was for an 
individual who forgot to sign their original absentee ID envelope but returned their 
supplemental 11-s form on time.  The board members took a few moments to review the 
ballots.  Ms. Crescimano made a motion to count the ballots, with Mr. Monaghan 
seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
 
Eliza Link, Clerk, reviewed the 17 provisional ballots cast this election.  She first reviewed 
the 11 provisional ballots eligible to be counted per the Elections Officials Manual.  Two 
were name changes where the people did not update their name in time for the voter 
registration deadline and did not have proof of their name change.  Four were address 
changes where the people did not change their address in time for the voter registration 
deadline.  One was cast because the person requested an absentee ballot but voted at the 
polls on Election Day.  They did not return their absentee ballot.  Two had no valid ID at 
the polling location but provided the last four digits of their social security number on the 
provisional identification envelope.  Two were registered  in other counties, one in 
Cuyahoga and one in Franklin.  Ms. Link corresponded with the other counties to confirm 
the people were registered there and did not vote there.  The board members took a few 
moments to review these provisionals.  Ms. Crescimano made a motion to count the 11 
eligible provisional ballots, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; 
motion carried.   
 
Ms. Link then reviewed five provisional ballots not eligible to be counted per the EOM.  
These five voters were not registered to vote anywhere in the state of Ohio.  Ms. Link stated 
she had Ms. James double-check this.  However, by filling out the yellow provisional ID 
envelopes, these people will become registered in Erie County after this election.  The 
board members took a few moments to review the envelopes.  Ms. Crescimano made a 
motion to not count the ballots, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted 
yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. Link stated one provisional ballot is pending review and gave a synopsis of the 
situation.  She stated a voter came in to vote early in our office.  The voter is registered in 
Perkins Township and stated that he lives in Perkins Township, but wanted to vote in 
Sandusky because he owns property there.  Ms. Link and Ms. James showed the voter 
Chapter 4, Page 75 of the EOM which reviews residency requirements for voting.  After 
reviewing the EOM, the voter stated he is fixing up property in the city of Sandusky and 
does spend some time there.  Ms. Link and Ms. James informed the voter that if he wants 
to vote, he would have to vote provisionally.  They also informed him that the board has the 
ultimate say in whether a provisional ballot is counted, and informed him of the date and 
time of the official canvass meeting.  The voter completed a voter registration form and a 
provisional ballot affirmation envelope and placed his voted ballot inside.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

Afterwards, Ms. James emailed the SOS legal department to ask the best way to handle 
this situation.  They reached out via phone and said that in the future, a voter in this 
situation should complete Form 10-U, Affidavit Oath Examination of Person Challenged.  
Even though office staff did not know this voter personally, what he said would have 
qualified him to complete the form.  The form asks questions such as Do you reside in this 
precinct, how long have you lived here, and what is your current mailing address.  The 
legal department also stated it was a board decision on whether the ballot is counted.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to not count the ballot, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All 
board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked the difference between election day ballots and mail-in ballots.  Ms. 
James stated there were 1,512 election day ballots cast, and 1,080 absentee ballots cast, 
which includes both mail-in and early, in person.   
 
Ms. Crescimano made a motion to recess until 3:00 p.m., with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  
All board members voted yes; motion carried.  Board recessed at 9:13 a.m.  
 
Ms. Crescimano made a motion to reconvene, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.  Board reconvened at 9:28 a.m.  
 
Ms. James stated that one of the absentee ballots the board said was eligible to be counted 
had an overvote.  The voter colored in the “Yes” oval, then crossed that off and voted No.  
Bipartisan board staff remade the ballot with a No vote.  The board members took a few 
moments to review the remade ballot.  Mr. Monaghan made a motion to accept the remade 
ballot, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. Crescimano made a motion to recess until 3:00 p.m., with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  
All board members voted yes; motion carried.  Board recessed at 9:29 a.m.  
 
Mr. Monaghan made a motion to reconvene, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.  Board reconvened at 3:00 p.m. for the purpose of the 
official election certification and regular meeting.  Guests present were Jason Hinners from 
the Erie County Prosecutor’s Office, Rachel Ruffer from the SOS Office, PT Barnum, 
MaryAnn Groot, Amy Grubbe, Alex Jones, and Ginny Wicker-Piddock.   
 
Ms. James stated the total number of votes cast was 2,606.  Voter turnout was 15.97 
percent.  854 people voted yes, and 1,751 people voted no, so the issue did not pass.  The 
board members took a few moments to sign the Certificate of Results page to submit to the 
SOS office.   
 
The board then decided on the date and time of the post-election audit, plus the machines 
to audit.  Ms. James stated that according the EOM, Chapter 11, Page 344, if there is no 
recount, the audit may start six days after the official results are declared and must be 
completed by the 21st day.  The board decided to conduct the audit on Friday, March 24th 
at 9 a.m.  
 
The board then randomly chose memory sticks to decide which machines to audit.  The 
first stick chosen was for the Sandusky Cultural Center, San H & I.  There were 186 ballots 
cast there.  The second stick chosen was for the Ebenezer Baptist Church, San J & N.  
There were 135 ballots cast there.  We must audit at least two machines and at least five 
percent of the ballots cast.  Five percent for this election is 131, so we have more than 
enough.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that we’ve all been notified by the SOS of Alex Jones’ appointment, so 
maybe we can reconvene the reorganization meeting on the 24th as well.  Mr. Hinners asked 
if Mr. Jones’ appointment was official.  Ms. Crescimano stated that we all received phone 
calls this afternoon and that the state would send a letter later this afternoon.  Mr. Hinners 
stated it was his suggestion to finish the reorganization sooner than the 24th.  Mr. Ferrell 
stated he was not sure if he could.   
 
Page 2 of 3

Ms. Crescimano stated that once the letter from the SOS office is sent, Mr. Jones can start 
as director.  Mr. Ferrell suggested that Mr. Jones talk with Matt Wilson in HR to fill out 
his paperwork.  Mr. Hinners stated he thought at the previous meeting the motion was that 
Ms. James would continue as deputy director until the reorganization.  The board 
members confirmed that was correct.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked if we had agreed on salaries.  Ms. Crescimano stated that when we 
had the budget hearing, it was said the director and deputy would be $70,000.  Mr. Ferrell 
stated that was incorrect.  Ms. Crescimano stated that it should have been anywhere 
between $65,000 and $70,000.  If we give the director and deputy director $75,000, then 
we’ll have to make cuts somewhere else.  Mr. Ferrell commented that the board sets the 
salary.  He also said that Mr. Monaghan did some research regarding what other 
employees are paid.   
 
Ms. Crescimano stated she may have made the motion, but the information that was given 
to her was incorrect.  The county commissioners told former board member Jeff Krabill 
that the salary would be anywhere between 65 and 70.  Ms. Crescimano stated that Mr. 
Krabill incorrectly told her 75, then called and apologized and said it should have been 
between 65 and 70.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that he did a survey of how many hours the director and deputy 
director work over a four-year period, and he thinks the salary should be $72,000.  He said 
if it’s less than that, then the director and deputy are making less than the clerks.  The 
board members agreed they would talk about it more at the next meeting.    
 
Ms. James asked if the next board meeting would be Friday, March 24th at 9 a.m. and 
would consist of the audit, reorganization, and regular monthly meeting.  Mr. Ferrell 
stated yes.   
 
Mr. Monaghan made a motion to adjourn, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 3:15 p.m.  
 
 
 
Adrienne G. James, Deputy Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Temporary Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

