The pre-election meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, May 2nd, 2022 at 4:00 p.m.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Rachel Mullen from SOS office, Gery Gross from Prosecutor’s 
Office, Caleb Stidham, Michelle Dickey, and Amy Grubbe 
 
Lori Salyers, Director, reviewed numbers for early and absentee voting.  We had 1,217 
voters in office.  We mailed 863 ballots, and received 744 back, 738 of which are countable.  
We had 51 hand carries and have received 36 back.  We had 59 nursing home voters.  Of 
those, 43 were countable and 16 were uncountable.  The uncountable nursing home ballots 
were due to residents saying they wanted to vote, but then changing their minds.  We had 
three UOCAVA ballots that we mailed, and we have received one of them back.  We 
emailed one UOCAVA ballot but have not received it back yet.  In total, we have 
distributed 2,194 absentee ballots, and have received 2,057 back.  Of those, 2,035 are 
countable, and 22 are uncountable.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked what the most common reason for an absentee ballot being 
uncountable was.  Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated it was nursing home residents 
who refused to vote.  If absentee ballots are uncountable for other reasons, such as a 
missing signature or missing ID information, we send that voter an 11-S form so they can 
provide the correct information and their ballot can be counted.   
 
Next on the agenda was reviewing overvoted and unclear ballots.  Ms. Salyers and Ms. 
James already remade these ballots how they presumed the board would vote.  The board 
members took a few minutes to review these ballots.  Motion to accept the overvoted ballots 
as staff remade them was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion 
carried.   
 
The board members then took a few moments to review the four ballots that had to be 
remade due to unclear marks.  Mr. Smith stated that three of the ballots he agreed with 
how staff remade them.  He stated that on the fourth ballot, he believes the voter intended 
to vote for Mike Gibbons.  Motion to accept the first three remakes, and color in the oval 
for Mike Gibbons on the fourth ballot, was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Rachel Mullen, Regional Liaison for the Secretary of State Office, then read a 
commendation letter from Secretary of State Frank LaRose.  She stated that Erie County 
was the only board in the state to receive such a letter.  She stated the secretary recognizes 
the staff has done a lot of heavy lifting this election cycle, and there were external 
challenges, as well.  The letter is as follows:  
 
“Dear Board Members and Staff,  
 
As Ohio’s 51st Secretary of State, I’m proud to recognize the men and women of the Erie 
County Board of Elections for your hard work and commitment to excellence.   
 
Ohio’s bipartisan 88 county boards of elections serve as the frontline for democracy.  As 
members and staff of the Erie County Board of Elections, you have ensured that the voters’ 
voices of Erie County are heard.  Now, more than ever, it’s crucial to have dedicated 
election officials who work tirelessly to provide Ohioans with safe and secure options to 
case their ballot, and we owe each and every one of you a debt of gratitude.  
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2

The right to vote was not universally granted to all Americans until the 20th century after 
suffragists, voting rights advocates, and civil rights leaders fought to add amendments to 
the United States Constitution to allow all Americans to vote, and it’s something we will 
never take for granted.  
 
On behalf of the State of Ohio, I extend my appreciation to the men and women of the Erie 
County Board of Elections.  Best wishes for another successful Election Day! 
 
Yours in Service,  
 
Frank LaRose” 
 
Staff and board members thanked Ms. Mullen for presenting the letter.  Mr. Smith stated, 
“Thank you to our staff.  They’re the ones who get it done every day.” 
 
Ms. Grubbe reminded staff that she would be an observer tomorrow.  She also asked about 
undeliverable postcards that were returned to the Perkins Township Building.  Eliza Link, 
Clerk, explained that we sent voters in Perkins Township #8 and #9 postcards to tell them 
that their new polling location was the Perkins Township Building at 2610 Columbus Ave.  
Some of those postcards were undeliverable, and the post office accidently returned them 
to the township building instead of to the Board of Elections.  Someone from the township 
building then returned the postcards in our dropbox.  Ms. Link stated that we informed the 
post office of their mistake.  Ms. Grubbe asked if there was something wrong with the post 
office’s machine, or if the Board of Elections had to do something different.  Mr. Ferrell 
stated we would look into it.   
 
Motion to recess was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
Board recessed at 4:20 p.m.  
 
On Tuesday, May 3rd, motion to reconvene was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. 
Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board reconvened at 7:05 p.m.  Ms. James stated we do not have 
any overvoted ballots for the board to review at this time.  At 7:30 p.m., staff went out to 
check the dropbox, then started tabulating and uploading results.   
 
Later, Ms. James stated there were three overvoted ballots for the board to review.  The 
board took a few moments to review them.  Motion to accept the ballots as Ms. Salyers and 
Ms. James remade them was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion 
carried.   
 
Ms. James then stated there was a 17-year-old ballot in Sandusky F.  The voter voted on 
Central Committee, which they are not allowed to do.  Ms. Salyers and Ms. James remade 
the ballot, and the board reviewed it.  Motion to accept the ballot as Ms. Salyers and Ms. 
James remade it was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Once all ballots were tabulated, motion to accept the unofficial results was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 10:48 p.m.  
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2

