The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Board Member William Monaghan on Friday, July 23, 2021 at 8:03 a.m.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Absent (excused) 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Amy Grubbe, Diane Schaefer 
 
Motion to approve the minutes from the previous board meeting on June 25 was made by 
Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to pay the bills was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Next on the agenda was to approve candidates’ petitions.  Adrienne James, Deputy 
Director, stated that each board member had a list of candidates to approve in their 
folders.  Every candidate on the list had enough valid signatures, and from staff’s review, 
their petitions were filled out correctly.  Ms. James also stated that four candidates 
requested to do a name change.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated, relying on the expertise of our staff, he would make a motion to 
approve the petitions of all the candidates on the list.  Mr. Smith seconded the motion.  
Motion carried.  The list of candidates approved, along with the positions they are running 
for, is below.   
 
 Sam Artino, Huron City Council 
 Matthew Ames, Sandusky City Commission 
 Thomas G. LaMarca, Sandusky City Commission 
 Timothy A. Schwanger, Sandusky City Commission 
 Gregory M. Ritchie, Kelleys Island Village Council 
 Scot A. Smith, Kelleys Island Village Council 
 Kimberly Broker, Bay View Village Council 
 Jeff Finnen, Berlin Township Trustee 
 Keith D. Edwards, Groton Township Trustee 
 Roger L. Rowland, Groton Township Trustee 
 Nancy Funni, Groton Township Fiscal Officer 
 Mary K. Schlessman, Huron Township Trustee 
 A. Joe Bias Jr., Margaretta Township Trustee 
 Gerald Nickoli, Milan Township Trustee 
 Timothy D. Coleman, Perkins Township Trustee 
 Eileen P. Bulan, North Point ESC Erie County Sub District 
 James Marc Suhanic, Edison Board of Education 
 Jeffrey Whitacre, Edison Board of Education 
 Ryan Hathaway, Huron Board of Education 
 Eric Lapata, Perkins Board of Education 
 
Ms. James then asked if there was a motion to approve the name changes for the four 
candidates who requested them.  Motion to approve the name changes was made by Mr. 
Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  The name changes approved are below.  
 
 Matthew Ames, changed to Matt Ames 
 Timothy A. Schwanger, changed to Tim Schwanger 
 Gregory M. Ritchie, changed to Greg Ritchie 
 Timothy D. Coleman, changed to Timothy Coleman.  
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

Next, Mr. Smith made a motion to approve the issues turned in so far.  Motion was 
seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  The list of issues approved is as follows:  
 
 Bay View Village, Renewal, Current Operating Expenses 
 Perkins Township, Additional, Fire and EMS 
 Perkins Township, Additional, Police Protection 
 Ritter Public Library, Renewal, Current Expenses 
 Milan Village, Local Liquor Option for Wonder Bar LLC 
 Milan Township #1, Local Liquor Option for Dave’s Park Avery 
 Milan Township #2, Local Liquor Option for Huron River Valley Resort 
 
Ms. Salyers then gave an update on the dropbox.  She stated that Brett Harbage, ADA 
coordinator for the Secretary of State’s office, visited the BOE to assess the two potential 
locations for the dropbox.  Mr. Harbage stated he would try to have the accessibility report 
to our office by Wednesday, but as of the Friday morning of the meeting, he had not 
emailed the report.   
 
Next, Ms. Salyers talked about the budget.  She gave the board members a colored 
spreadsheet with several columns.  The first column shows what we spent in 2020 in 
various accounts.  The second column shows what we have spent so far in 2021 in various 
accounts.  Finally, the third column shows what we project to spend from various accounts 
for the rest of the year.  Ms. Salyers also explained that, based on her and Ms. James’ 
calculations, we can expect to receive about $42,000 in chargebacks from the May election.  
Because of this, we should not have to ask for more money from the county.  We plan to 
put most of the chargeback money into contract services, to pay for poll workers, with the 
remaining chargeback money going into part time pay.  After that, we can move money 
around as needed.   
 
Ms. Salyers then stated that we planned to postpone the filming of the training classes, but 
that we do have enough money to obtain the topaz signature pads and to remove the early 
voting laptops.  Motion to obtain the topaz signature pads and to remove the early voting 
laptops, conditional on the chargeback money being available, was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Mr. Krabill also encouraged Ms. Salyers to 
contact the auditor’s office regarding receiving the chargeback money.   
 
Next on the agenda was discussion of the proposed policy handbook changes.  The board 
decided they would go over that next month.  Right now, the prosecutor’s office is 
reviewing the proposed changes.  Ms. Salyers stated that if any of the board members 
wanted to make changes to policy to let her know, and she would pass along the suggestions 
to Sue in the prosecutor’s office.   
 
Mr. Monaghan then stated that we needed to reschedule the August meeting and suggested 
Friday, August 13.  Ms. James stated she was off that day, and asked if that was okay.  Mr. 
Monaghan then suggested moving the meeting to Thursday, August 12.  Motion to 
reschedule the meeting to Thursday, August 12 at 8 a.m. was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Ms. James stated that they would update the 
website and inform the media of the change.  Ms. Salyers also reminded the board 
members that it was important for all of them to be at the meeting, because with Tom gone, 
if one person misses, we don’t have a quorum.    
 
Mr. Monaghan then asked if there were any other matters to come before the board.  Eliza 
Link, clerk, asked about a part time worker who would like to work again this election, but 
he is a Huron School Board member and they are planning to place a levy on the ballot.  
Mr. Smith stated that the part timer would not be able to work.  Ms. Schaefer then asked 
typically, how long does it take to get an answer from the state regarding issues on the 
ballot?  Ms. Salyers stated that it depends and asked what issues she wanted to know 
about.  Ms. Schaefer stated the Perkins Township ones.  Ms. Salyers replied that the SOS

ballot?  Ms. Salyers stated that it depends and asked what issues she wanted to know 
about.  Ms. Schaefer stated the Perkins Township ones.  Ms. Salyers replied that the SOS 
office had approved those issues.   
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 8:17 a.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

