The official certification/regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections 
was called to order by Chairman Ferrell at 8:00 a.m. on Friday May 15, 2020. 
 
 Roll Call:      (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Gery Gross, Amy Grubbe  
 
Ms. Salyers stated that to certify the election, the board would need to sign some forms.  
The board took a few minutes to sign all the forms.   
 
Motion to certify the results of the Erie Metroparks levy was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion passed.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Yes 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Yes 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Yes 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Yes 
 
Motion to certify the results of the Huron City Schools levy was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion passed.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Yes 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Yes 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Yes 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Yes 
 
Motion to certify the results of the Margaretta Township levy was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion passed.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Yes 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Yes 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Yes 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Yes 
 
Motion to certify the results of the local liquor option in Perkins Township 4 was made by 
Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion passed.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Yes 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Yes 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Yes 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Yes 
 
Motion to certify the results of the March 2020 Primary was made by Mr. Smith, seconded 
by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion passed.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Yes 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Yes 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Yes 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 4

Ms. Salyers stated that the next item on the agenda was to discuss the voter card retention 
schedule.  When a voter updates their name or address, that information is scanned into 
the voter registration system in the computer, and the back of the active card is updated as 
well, which Ms. Salyers stated was redundant.  She pointed out that Jose Trejo from Triad 
mentioned that most counties do not do it that way.  She also stated that Homeland 
Security was concerned about having the active cards up front where someone could reach 
over the counter and grab them and obtain confidential information, such as a social 
security number.  Many counties store these active cards in another place where they are 
not as accessible, such as the basement.  Ms. Salyers wanted to know if the board was okay 
with the digital file being considered the “permanent record” of the voter so that board 
staff can move the active cards to the basement and no longer has to update the backs of 
them.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated that from the standpoint of the staff, it seems that designating the digital 
file as the permanent file makes sense.  Mr. Monaghan asked whether the data in the 
computers was backed up in the cloud.  Mr. Krabill stated no, but that the data is on three 
different servers.  There is the main server, a back-up, and a back-up to the back-up.  One 
of the servers is also off-site.   
 
Motion to designate the digital file as the permanent record and then store the active cards 
in the basement, conditional on approval from the Secretary of State, was made by Mr. 
Krabill.  Ms. Salyers stated that she would email the SOS office and get their answer in 
writing.  Mr. Ferrell inquired as to how surrounding counties handled voter cards and 
retention.  Ms. Link stated that Mr. Trejo stated that most counties scan the updates in the 
computer and do not update the backs of active cards.  Boards have to physically keep the 
updates for so many years, but they would be scanned into the computer system 
permanently.  Mr. Krabill then asked if there was a second to his motion.  Mr. Monaghan 
seconded.  Motion passed.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated that the next item on the agenda was to discuss a secure outside lockbox.  
She stated that there were some complaints this past election about the dropbox not being 
outdoors, and not being accessible 24/7.  Ms. Salyers passed out some literature she 
received regarding different dropboxes and prices for the board to review.  She stated that 
if they did decide to purchase another lockbox, it would need to be surveilled 24/7.  Mr. 
Smith asked if the commissioners would permit us to keep the first set of double doors open 
24/7 in order to satisfy the accessibility requirements.  Ms. Salyers stated that some people 
were upset because the dropbox was not outdoors, but Mr. Ferrell stated the box does not 
have to be outdoors; it just has to be accessible 24/7.  Mr. Monaghan also pointed out that 
weather could be an issue if we had a box outside.  Ms. Salyers stated that the board often 
receives papers that don’t belong to us, such as papers for Veterans’ Services, in the box.  
Mr. Smith commented that with an outdoor box, receiving papers that don’t belong to us is 
even more likely to happen.  The board decided they did not want to purchase another 
lockbox, and instead would ask the commissioners to leave the first set of doors open 24/7 
during election season to satisfy accessibility requirements.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated that the next item to discuss was purchasing a barcode scanner for the 
backs of envelopes.  When absentee ballots came back in the mail after the election, 
Shomore Deniro from the Secretary of State’s office had to come to the building with a 
barcode scanner to determine when those envelopes were postmarked so that the board 
could make a decision on whether or not to count those ballots.  Ms. Salyers asked Ms.

barcode scanner to determine when those envelopes were postmarked so that the board 
could make a decision on whether or not to count those ballots.  Ms. Salyers asked Ms. 
Deniro if the Secretary of State’s office could provide us a barcode scanner, but they 
cannot.  The cost of one is $614, which includes a cable and shipping.  Mr. Smith expressed 
his opinion that purchasing the scanner was not necessary, because the Secretary of State 
sends someone out to do the scanning for us.  It also gives Ms. Deniro an incentive to come 
visit the office, which is what she is supposed to do as part of her job.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 4

Ms. Salyers stated that the next item to discuss was the conference room.  After the 
election, Erie County Commissioner Pat Shenigo thanked the board for their hard work, 
and asked if there was anything he could do for them.  Ms. Salyers asked Mr. Shenigo if the 
board could have the conference room, and Mr. Shenigo stated yes.  Ms. Salyers stated that 
she would like to go to a commissioners’ meeting to have them take a vote on it.  If they 
vote yes, she would like the doors to the conference room to be under double lock and key 
so that the board can keep equipment in the conference room during early voting.  Ms. 
Salyers also stated that the board would share the room with anyone who wants it, but that 
as long as she’s been here, only one other group that she knows of has requested the room.   
 
Mr. Smith expressed his concerns that the room is used for mediation, but Ms. Salyers 
reiterated that we would share the room with anyone who wants it.  Ms. Salyers asked if 
the board was okay with her asking the commissioners.  Mr. Ferrell stated that that was 
fine, but that she would also have to ask Carolyn.  Mr. Smith asked if we were just going to 
ask for this room during election time, and Ms. Salyers stated no.  Mr. Krabill stated the 
importance of asking for the room, because it was a matter of convenience for the staff, and 
it would not inconvenience anyone else.  Mr. Monaghan suggested Ms. Salyers write a 
letter to all three commissioners, asking for permission.  Mr. Gross asked if making the 
room a designated Board of Elections Room would make it so that others can’t use it.  Mr. 
Krabill stated no, that all people who wanted to use the room would have to do is ask the 
director.  Ms. Gross stated that may or may not be true.  Mr. Smith then expressed his 
concerns again about the impact this would have on mediations.  Mr. Ferrell suggested 
talking to Carolyn again.  Ms. Salyers asked the board if they would rather have it so that 
the room was only a designated Board of Elections space during election time, but still have 
it under double lock so that we can keep equipment in there during early voting.  The 
board agreed that that was fine.  Mr. Ferrell stated that he would talk to Pete about it.   
 
Next, motion to go into executive session for the purpose of discussing personnel was made 
by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board went into executive 
session at 8:40 a.m.   
 
Motion to return to regular session was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 8:55 a.m.  
 
Mr. Krabill made a motion to pay all poll workers for the 2020 Primary Election $55.  The 
exception would be poll workers who quit would only get paid for training ($15 for VLMs, 
$10 for Signature Judges, and $5 for Ballot Judges and Clerks.)  Mr. Monaghan seconded 
the motion.  Motion carried.    
 
Ms. Salyers stated that the next item to discuss was the audit. According to the Secretary of 
State, we have to audit five percent of our total votes for this election.  Ms. James stated 
that the total number of votes cast in this election was 11,963, and five percent of that is 
598.15, or about 600.  The board members then drew precincts from a box to determine 
which ones would be audited.  The four precincts chosen were Kelleys Island, Perkins 
Township 1, Sandusky G, and Milan Township 1.  The total number of votes cast in these 
precincts was 709, which meets the five percent requirement. 
 
Ms. James stated that, according to the Elections Official Manual, the audit must begin no 
sooner than six business after the board certifies, which would be Tuesday, May 26.  Also, 
the board must complete the audit no later than 21 days after the certification, which 
would be Friday, June 5.  The board decided on doing the audit on Tuesday, June 2 at 9 
a.m.  Ms. James stated that the contests to be audited would be the Democratic Delegate at

would be Friday, June 5.  The board decided on doing the audit on Tuesday, June 2 at 9 
a.m.  Ms. James stated that the contests to be audited would be the Democratic Delegate at 
Large race, the Democratic county commissioner race between Pat Shenigo and Julie 
Farrar, and the Erie Metroparks levy.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 4

Ms. Grubbe stated that she had a couple of questions before the meeting adjourned.  She 
stated that the website had the meeting schedule for 2017, and it also stated that today’s 
meeting started at 9 a.m., but it started at 8.  She also stated that the website does not 
indicate when the office receives an application for a provisional ballot, nor does it say that 
a provisional ballot was mailed.  She mentioned two voters who had to vote provisionally 
because of signatures not matching, and said that they had a tough time this election.  She 
was also concerned because the provisional ballots for these two voters were mailed so late.   
 
Ms. Link pulled up the meeting schedule on her phone and stated that it was a 2020 
schedule, and that it stated that today’s meeting started at 8 a.m.  Mr. Smith looked at the 
schedule on his phone and confirmed that that was true.  Mr. Ferrell stated that the staff 
did an excellent job this election, and that they often worked late at night to get the job 
done.  Ms. Link stated that when people voted provisionally this election, they were mailed 
a 12-H form, which informs them that they can call the office to see the status of their 
ballot.  Mr. Ferrell also stated that he checked the signatures of the two voters in question, 
and it was obvious that the signatures did not match.  Ms. Salyers stated that she called the 
Secretary of the State to get guidance on checking signatures, and they confirmed with her 
that verifying signatures is part of our job to protect the integrity of the election.  Ms. 
James stated that the reason the two voters in question were mailed their provisional 
ballots so late is that the office was trying to give them every opportunity to submit a 
corrected application so as to get a regular ballot.  The two voters said that they would 
submit a corrected application; however, they did not by the April 25 deadline, so the office 
had no choice but to send them a provisional.  
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 9:12 a.m.   
 
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
__________________________________________  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 4

