The official canvass meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Board Member William Monaghan at 9:00 a.m. on Monday, May 17, 2021.   
 
 Roll Call:      (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Absent (excused) 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: None 
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, started the meeting by reviewing absentee ballots.  She 
stated that the office received six absentee ballots after the election that were postmarked 
by the day before the election or earlier, and they were all received within ten days of the 
election, so they are eligible to be counted.  The board members took a few moments to 
look them over.  Motion to accept these ballots was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by 
Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Ms. James stated that two absentee ballots are not eligible to be counted.  One was 
postmarked May 4th, which was the day of the election, and another was returned to us as 
undeliverable.  Motion to reject these ballots was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Eliza Link, Clerk, then reviewed provisional ballots.  She stated that there were two 
provisional ballots where the voters accidently voted the wrong ballot.  For the first one, 
the person voted a Huron A ballot, but should have voted Huron C.  For the second one, 
the person voted a Huron A ballot, but they should have voted a Huron Township 1.  
However, the ballots for Huron were all the same.  Motion to accept these ballots was made 
by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
 
Ms. Link then stated there were seven other provisional ballots that are eligible to be 
counted.  For two of them, the voters were registered in Richland County, but did not vote 
there.  For another two, the voters were sent an absentee ballot in the mail, but chose not to 
vote it and instead voted on Election Day.  They also did not return their absentee ballots to 
us.  The last three were address changes within Erie County.  Motion to accept these ballots 
was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Ms. Link then stated that there were four provisional ballots that are not eligible to be 
counted, because the people were not registered to vote anywhere in the state of Ohio.  
Motion to reject these ballots was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.   
 
Motion to go into recess while staff opened and scanned eligible absentees and provisionals 
was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board went into 
recess at 9:06 a.m.  
 
Later, motion to come out of recess was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.  Board reconvened at 10:30 a.m.  
 
Ms. James stated that staff scanned an additional six absentee ballots and nine provisional 
ballots.  These ballots did not change the outcomes of any races.  In total, we had 2,871 
election day ballots, 491 absentee ballots, and 9 provisional ballots, for a total of 3,371 votes 
cast.  Voter turnout this election was 20.88 percent.   
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 10:32 a.m.  
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
Page 1 of 1

