The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, March 11th, 2022 at 9:00 a.m.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Amy Grubbe 
 
Motion to approve the minutes of the February 11th meeting was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to pay the bills was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion 
carried.  Lori Salyers, Director, stated there was one Then and Now Certificate to sign for 
our annual fee for our I.T. department.   
 
Motion to certify the petitions for candidates for State Representative, 89th District, was 
made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  A roll call vote was taken.  
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
 
Motion carried.  The two candidates certified were James R. Obergefell, Democrat, and 
Douglas James Swearingen Jr., Republican.   
 
Motion to approve the name changes for both candidates was made by Mr. Smith, 
seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  James R. Obergefell will appear on the 
ballot as Jim Obergefell, and Douglas James Swearingen Jr. will appear on the ballot as 
D.J. Swearingen.   
 
Next on the agenda was Polling Location Updates.  Ms. Salyers stated that Agape Love 
Ministries in Perkins Township no longer wishes to host us, so we are trying to find an 
alternate location.  We would like to use Ability Works across the street from Agape.  Ms. 
Salyers spoke with someone there who said they would be happy to host us, but they may 
not be able to this election because of resurfacing their parking lot.  Ability Works is 
supposed to contact us in mid-March to let us know for sure.  Eliza Link, Clerk, stated that 
if we can’t use Ability Works this election, we would like to use the Perkins Township 
Building.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated she contacted the mayor of Vermilion about an alternate location for 
Vermilion Veterans Field House.  However, the mayor informed her that there are no 
locations in Vermilion, so we will have to stay at the Field House.  Ms. Salyers suggested the 
fire station, but the mayor stated that would interfere with business.  Ms. Salyers stated we 
do not want to interfere with EMS services.   
 
Mr. Smith commented that the Vermilion fire station does not handle EMS; they contract 
that out.  He stated that we can’t do anything about it this election, but in the future, we 
may want to have Sue Brown from the prosecutor’s office reach out to Vermilion to remind 
them of facilities’ obligations to serve as polling locations if they receive tax dollars.   
 
Mr. Monaghan suggested the Vermilion Municipal Building, but Mr. Smith stated they 
have court on Tuesdays.  Mr. Krabill suggested a banquet hall, while Mr. Smith suggested 
the Vermilion Boat Club.  It may not be in the correct precinct, though.  Mr. Smith stated 
he would like to look at a map of Vermilion to try to find a polling location.   
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

Next on the agenda was Other Election Updates.  The state has passed new maps, and the 
SOS office has instructed us to move forward.  The western part of Erie County is in the 
89th House and 2nd Senate District, while the eastern part of Erie County is in the 54th 
House and 13th Senate District.  Ms. Salyers explained that the dividing line runs through 
the precinct Huron Township #1.  She did some figuring with both google maps and the 
maps from the SOS office.  Then, she contacted Mark Wroblewski at the Auditor’s Office.  
Mr. Wroblewski provided her with maps, and they were the same as the ones Ms. Salyer’s 
figured.  However, Mr. Wroblewski made it clear that the Auditor’s Office is not to be held 
responsible for placing people in the correct districts.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated that in one instance, the dividing line runs right through someone’s 
house.  Part of the house is in the 89th District, while the other part of the house is in the 
54th District.  She is not sure what to do in this situation.  Mr. Smith asked if we had 
received any guidance from the SOS office.  Ms. Salyers stated that the SOS office said to 
work with your county auditor.  Mr. Smith suggested contacting Sue Brown at the 
Prosecutor’s Office for some legal guidance.   
 
Ms. Salyers also stated that the SOS office would be giving us grant money for this 
upcoming election in the amount of $87,441.  We do not have to place the money in an 
interest-bearing account, and we do not have to receive quotes.  The SOS office has told us 
what we can spend the money on, and this includes overtime wages.  We must send the 
money back to the state by August 5.   
 
Mr. Smith asked if there was a need to hire more part-timers.  Ms. Salyers replied that we 
may bring in some part-timers to help us hire poll workers, which we can pay for with 
grant money.  Mr. Smith then asked what would happen if there was a second primary.  
Ms. Salyers responded that she thinks the grant money is just for this primary.  
 
Mr. Ferrell then asked if there were any other matters to come before the board.  Ms. 
Grubbe stated she had several questions.  Her first question was regarding military and 
overseas voters.  Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated that currently, we have one 
overseas voter who has requested an absentee ballot for this election.  We recently received 
an email from the SOS office stating that the first batch of UOCAVA ballots do not have to 
be sent out by March 18, but they must be sent out by April 5.  The email also stated that 
instead of having 10 days after the election for BOEs to receive UOCAVA ballots, they will 
have 20 days.  This means that we may have to change the date of our official canvass and 
certification.   
 
Ms. Grubbe then asked when candidates would be approved for district races.  Ms. James 
stated that Monday, March 14th is the deadline for the most populous counties to certify to 
us.   
 
Next, Ms. Grubbe asked about PEO assignments.  Ms. Salyers stated we were working on 
it.  Ms. Grubbe asked if we had her name down to work as a PEO.  Ms. Salyers replied that 
there was an issue last election that they could talk about later, and that we probably would 
not be calling her to work again.  Ms. Grubbe stated she would like to know about the issue 
on the record.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated that she received a phone call from two workers who worked at Ms. 
Grubbe’s location last election. According to them, a voter fed their ballot through the 
DS200, but the DS200 kicked the ballot out, saying there was an overvote.  The clerk told 
the voter to go to the ballot judge to spoil their ballot and receive a new one.  Ms. Grubbe, 
who was the ballot judge, told the voter that was not necessary.  She informed the voter to 
bypass the warning on the DS200 and feed the ballot through.  She stated that on Election 
Night, BOE staff would go through the ballots and remake the ballot that the voter

bypass the warning on the DS200 and feed the ballot through.  She stated that on Election 
Night, BOE staff would go through the ballots and remake the ballot that the voter 
overvoted.  However, this is not true, so that person lost their vote on the race that they 
overvoted.   
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Ms. Grubbe then stated she would like to receive a copy of the maps from the auditor’s 
office, plus the PEO assignments so far.  Ms. Salyers and Ms. James stated they would 
email that information to her.   
 
Next, Ms. Grubbe asked about the report that Mr. Krabill recently wrote, which debunked 
that there was any fraud or vote changing in Erie County for the November 2020 General 
Election.  Ms. Grubbe remarked that the report does not indicate that it was not written on 
behalf of the Board of Elections.  She wanted to know what the policy of such investigations 
by board members or staff is.  
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that if the board was going to do an investigation, we would initiate it in 
a public meeting.  Ms. Grubbe replied that this report should have come in front of the 
board, and that didn’t happen.  Mr. Smith stated that the report in question was an 
individual’s work.  It came from an individual board member exercising his right to do 
what he wants.  Ms. Grubbe countered that this individual sits on the Board of Elections 
board, so there is a higher standard that should be met.  Mr. Smith stated that he 
remembers Mr. Krabill talking about the report, and it wasn’t a secret.  Mr. Krabill also 
provided the report to Ms. Grubbe.  It is what it is.   
 
Mr. Krabill then asked if everyone had received a copy of the draft of his BOE salary 
survey.  Mr. Monaghan stated that he had.  Mr. Krabill stated that there was one question 
that Ms. James felt should be added, so he added it.  Mr. Ferrell asked Mr. Krabill to state 
the question for the record.  Mr. Krabill stated the additional question is, “Do your clerks 
all make the same salary, or is there a difference by experience/years?”  Mr. Krabill stated 
he planned to email the survey to all the county boards, then compile the data in a 
spreadsheet and share it with the counties who participated.   
 
Motion to go into executive session for personnel and security matters was made by Mr. 
Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  A roll call vote was taken.   
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
 
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 9:36 a.m.   
 
Motion to leave executive session and return to regular session was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 
10:19 a.m.  
 
Ms. Salyers stated she had one more point to address.  Our current ballot bags are very 
old, and some are falling apart.  Ms. Salyers found some ballot bags that are on wheels, 
which would be good for our older poll workers.  They can hold up to 150 pounds and 
2,500 ballots.  These new bags would be about $195 each, but shipping would be free.  Mr. 
Smith asked what the old bags look like.  Ms. Salyers replied that they are just carrier bags 
with handles.  Mr. Ferrell asked if we could use grant money from the state to pay for new 
bags.  Ms. Salyers replied that she did not think so, but that she could ask.  Mr. Smith 
stated he did not like the price and would like to keep researching until we find something 
cheaper.  He also would like to know the lifespan of the new bags.   
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 10:25 a.m.  
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
Page 3 of 3

