The pre-election meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, November 6th, 2023 at 4:00 p.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member   Present 
                        (D) MaryAnn Groot, Member               Present 
                        (R) Nancy C. McKeen, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Jason Hinners from Erie County Prosecutor’s Office and Amy 
Grubbe 
 
Alex Jones, Director, gave a summary of absentee voting.  He stated that comparatively for 
an odd year, we had a tremendous turn out for early voting.  So far, the number of voters 
we are crediting for early and absentee voting are as follows:  
• Hand Carry: 69 
• Accessible Ballot: 1 
• In Office: 5,421 
• Mail: 1,776 
• Nursing Home: 97 
• UOCAVA Email: 9 
• UOCAVA Mail: 3 
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, presented overvoted ballots to the board.  The first 
category consists of 12 ballots that are not true overvotes, but rather things like hesitation 
marks or timing marks being off.  Ms. James and Mr. Jones remade the ballots how they 
believe the voter intended to vote, and paperclipped the “bad” ballots on top of the remade 
ones.  The board members took a few minutes to review the ballots.  Ms. Crescimano 
motioned to accept the remade ballots as presented, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
The last category consists of nine ballots that are true overvotes.  If the board members 
agree that the ballots are true overvotes, then Ms. James and Mr. Jones will run the ballots 
through the high-speed scanner with the overvote counter turned on so that it will not 
count the races that are overvoted.  The board members took a few minutes to review the 
ballots.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to accept the overvoted ballots as presented, with Ms. 
Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. Groot motioned to recess, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted 
yes; motion carried.  Board recessed at 4:12 p.m.  
 
On Tuesday, November 7th at 7:00 p.m., the board reconvened with all members present 
and Amy Grubbe present as a guest.  Mr. Jones stated there are currently no ballots for the 
board to review.  We’ll check the dropbox at 7:30 p.m., and if there are any ballots to 
review at that time, we will present them to the board.   
 
At 7:30 p.m., the polls closed.  Mr. Jones and Ms. James checked the dropbox, then 
uploaded the absentee results.  As the memory sticks returned from the election day polling 
locations, they uploaded election day results, too.   
 
At 10:25 p.m., Ms. James presented the unofficial results to the board.  She stated that 
voter turnout in Erie County is 52.65%.  For the Huron Board of Education race, there are 
still some write-ins that are unassigned, but the vast majority of them will be assigned as 
“uncertified” because the voters did not write in the name of a valid write-in candidate.  
The board members, director, and deputy director took a few moments to sign the 
unofficial certification of results signature form to email to the Secretary of State’s office.  
 
Ms. Groot stated that she drove by or visited 26 polling locations today and would like to 
share some of her observations, which are as follows:  
 
Page 1 of 3

• Oxford Township Garage (Oxford Township): This location had a steady stream of 
voters.  The workers there think that next election, they will need more privacy 
screens.  
 
• Castalia Village Hall (Castalia Village): Ms. Groot drove by the village hall around 
noon and noted it was congested with limited parking.  
 
• Milan Administration Building (Milan Village): Ms. Groot said she drove by and 
saw a Vote Here sign but no campaign signs.  Possibly there was no place outside the 
100 feet to place the signs.   
 
• Health Department (Sandusky M): The Health Department has undergone a lot of 
changes.  There should be more signage to indicate that voting is around the back.  
Without more signs, new voters going to the health department may be confused.   
 
• Ebenezer Baptist Church (Sandusky J and N): The voting room was quite a distance 
from the front door.  Voters had to go down several hallways.  There used to be 
voting on the east side of the building.   
 
• Castalia United Church of Christ (Margaretta Township #3 and #4): There was 
another activity going on in the church in the room where voting usually takes 
place.  That room is accessible, but the room where voting took place this election 
was not.  There was a voter using a wheelchair who had trouble accessing the room.   
 
Ms. Groot asked if the board members ever see the notes and suggestions made by the poll 
workers.  Ms. James stated she would scan them and email them to the board members.   
 
Ms. Grubbe stated she had some questions from when she was observing at the Board of 
Elections.  She said it sounds like the PEOs (precinct election officials) are no longer 
required to call the board if they’re processing a provisional voter.  She asked if this is a 
policy change and why.   
 
Mr. Jones replied that VLMs (voting location managers) are still required to call us if they 
are assisting a provisional voter with an address change.  That is most of the calls we 
receive regarding provisionals.  New this election is that VLMs are no longer required to 
call us if the voter is voting provisionally due to an expired ID.  The voter is in the right 
place and they’re saying they live where they’re registered; they just don’t have a valid ID.  
In August we received quite a few of those calls, and we didn’t have the staff capacity to 
take all of them.  Now, we have instructed the VLMs that if it is a case of an expired license, 
they can process the provisional without calling us, because there is nothing we can add to 
the conversation.  
 
Ms. Grubbe asked how many provisionals there were.  Mr. Jones stated 402.  Ms. Grubbe 
asked if that is a normal number compared to past elections.  Mr. Jones stated it is quite a 
bit.  Ms. Crescimano asked how many provisionals were due to expired licenses.  Mr. Jones 
stated it was primarily address changes.  Ms. Crescimano stated that for address changes, 
the VLMs still need to call.  Mr. Jones confirmed that was correct.  He stated that we 
received many phone calls about address changes today, and we processed about 100 
people in office who had to vote provisionally due to an address change.  
 
Ms. Grubbe asked if we separate the provisional ballots by countable and not countable, 
and by reason that the person voted provisionally.  Mr. Jones replied that yes, when we 
present the provisionals to the board, they will be separated by cause.  He then gave three 
examples.  The first example was someone who votes provisionally because they were 
registered in Erie County but moved to a different precinct.  In that case, the board would 
be able to count that provisional.  The second example was someone who is not registered 
to vote anywhere in Ohio, which the board would not be able to count.  The third example 
was a voter who is registered to vote in another Ohio county.  In that case, we contact the 
other county to see if the person voted there, which informs us whether we can count the

was a voter who is registered to vote in another Ohio county.  In that case, we contact the 
other county to see if the person voted there, which informs us whether we can count the 
provisional ballot.  
 
Page 2 of 3

Ms. Grubbe commented on the voters who were removed from the rolls in September.  She 
also stated she heard labels of confirmation or provisional status.  She asked what that is 
and what the process is if one of those people shows up to vote.   
 
Ms. James replied that if someone is in provisional status, that means we mailed them an 
acknowledgement notice after they registered, but the acknowledgement notice was 
returned to us as undeliverable.  When that happens, we are required to place those voters 
in a provisional status.  As long as they show valid ID and complete the provisional ID 
envelope correctly, then their provisional ballot would be eligible for counting.  Ms. 
Grubbe asked if there were several of those voters today; Ms. James stated there were.   
 
Ms. Grubbe asked what a fleeing voter is.  Ms. James replied that a fleeing voter is when a 
voter feeds their ballot into the scanner but they leave before the message appears on the 
scanner, and instead of the usual “Thank you for voting” message, it says it can’t accept 
the ballot due to an overvote.  Ms. James stated she received a phone call from a VLM 
about this today.  She told the VLM to place the ballot in the auxiliary bin while she called 
the Secretary of State’s office to see what the solution was.  The person from the SOS legal 
department said that it was considered a fleeing voter, and the ballot could not be counted.  
Ms. Grubbe asked what precinct it was.  Ms. James stated it took place at the Mylander 
Pavilion, which hosts Sandusky E and G.  She is not sure what precinct it was.    
 
Ms. Grubbe commented on how part-time board employees were addressing people who 
came into the office to vote today.  The part-timers said there is no voting being done here 
today, but there actually is.  There is voting downstairs and provisional voting in the office.  
Ms. Grubbe thinks the verbiage needs to be a bit clearer.  She also commented on the 
check-in computer that used to be in the lobby and how that helped alleviate traffic.  Then, 
she asked if there would be any notice to people that our office would be open on Friday.  
Ms. James replied that it would be on our website and that we would contact the Register.  
She also said signs would be posted on our door.  Ms. Grubbe asked for a list of PEOs, 
their positions, and their party affiliation.  Ms. James stated she would email that.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to adjourn, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 10:45 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

