The pre-election meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Ferrell at 4:07 p.m. on Monday, November 2nd, 2020.   
 
 Roll Call:      (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Gery Gross and Amy Grubbe 
 
Ms. James, Deputy Director, stated that we would start with overvotes.  The first 
category were ballots that were not true overvotes, though.  They had to be remade due 
to technical issues, such as timing marks off center, smudges, and tears in the ballots.  
Ms. Salyers, Director, and Ms. James had to remake those ballots because the DS450 
would not read the originals.  The board members passed the ballots around to look 
them over.  Ms. Salyers explained that it was written in the blank parts what was 
wrong with them.  Ms. Grubbe asked if the board members were just checking to make 
sure that the remade ballots were made identical to the originals, and Mr. Ferrell 
confirmed that that was correct.  
 
While the board was passing remade ballots around, Mr. Gross asked if anybody had 
any questions regarding Mr. Ferrell’s participation in this process.  Mr. Smith asked 
what exactly does Mr. Ferrell have to abstain from voting on.  Mr. Gross responded 
that his opinion would be that if there’s an overvote or undervote on the treasurer’s 
race, Mr. Ferrell would abstain from voting on that.  He is not aware of a legal reason 
for Mr. Ferrell to abstain from voting on anything else.  Mr. Krabill asked if it was 
okay for Mr. Ferrell to see how the vote is on his wife’s race.  Mr. Gross responded yes; 
he doesn’t see how that can’t happen.  Mr. Gross also stated that the important thing is 
that Mr. Ferrell is not locked in a room with ballots and a pencil.  We’re all in here, 
and it’s a bipartisan team.   
 
The board spent over an hour looking at ballots that needed to be remade due to 
technical issues.  While doing so, they discussed another category of remake ballots: 
the ones where people colored in the oval next to one name, but then colored the oval 
next to the write-in line and wrote that name on the write-in line.  Together with Mr. 
Gross, they reviewed the Elections Officials Manual and talked about whether or not 
those votes could be counted.  In all, there were 211 ballots that fell under the category 
of ballots that needed to be remade due to technical issues.  Motion to accept these 
ballots as they were remade was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.  
 
The next category of ballots to look at were ballots with hesitation marks and 
overvotes.  Ms. Salyers explained that she and Ms. James remade the ballots how the 
voter intended to vote, but that for the ones that were questionable, they left those 
races blank for the board to interpret.  There were 100 ballots in the “hesitation marks 
and overvotes” category.  Mr. Ferrell stated that if any of the races in question had to 
do with his wife’s race, he did not want to see those ballots.  The board took turns 
passing the ballots around.  There were two ballots that Ms. Salyers and Ms. James 
remade that the board disagreed with.  Motion to remake the first ballot with no vote 
for Supreme Court justice, and remake the second ballot with no vote for President 
was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Motion to approve 
the remaining ballots as remade was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.  Next, Mr. Ferrell left the room while the remaining three board 
members looked at four ballots where the race in question was the treasurer’s race.  
The three board members agreed that the way Ms. Salyers and Ms. James remade 
those ballots was correct.  Motion to accept these ballots as they were remade was

The three board members agreed that the way Ms. Salyers and Ms. James remade 
those ballots was correct.  Motion to accept these ballots as they were remade was 
made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Mr. Ferrell then 
reentered the room to look at the last category of remade ballots.   
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

The last category of remade ballots were ballots where people colored in the oval next 
to one name, and also colored in the oval next to the write-in line and wrote the 
candidate’s name there.  The board members agreed that if the two names were the 
same, then the voter’s intent was clear.  However, if a voter voted for one candidate, 
but then wrote in a different candidate’s name on the write-in line, that was a true 
overvote.  There were 34 ballots where the voter voted for one candidate, and then 
wrote in that same candidate’s name on the write-in line.  Motion to remake those 
ballots with a vote for that candidate was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
There were two ballots, though, that were in question.  On one, the voter colored in the 
oval next to Trump/Pence, and then just wrote in “Trump” on the write-in line.  On 
the other, the voter colored in the oval next to Biden/Harris but wrote “Harris” on the 
write-in line.  Mr. Smith thought that the voter’s intent was clear on the Trump ballot, 
but that it was a true overvote on the Biden ballot.  Mr. Gross agreed.  Motion to 
remake the Trump ballot with a vote for Trump was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by 
Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  Motion to remake the Biden ballot with no vote for 
president was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Mr. Ferrell then stated that we need a motion to go into executive session to discuss 
security.  Ms. Grubbe stated that before the board goes into executive session, she 
wanted to pass out information about election observers from the Secretary of State 
office.  Ms. Grubbe stated that she would be an observer tomorrow at the Board of 
Elections office, and that she would have free access.  She stated that if there were any 
problems tomorrow, she would contact the Voter Protection Team.  Mr. Gross asked if 
Ms. Grubbe had filed the proper paperwork to be an observer, and Ms. James 
informed him yes.   
 
Motion to go into executive session was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. 
Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 6:20 p.m.   
 
Motion to go back into regular session was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to recess was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion 
carried.   
 
On November 3, motion to reconvene was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. 
Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board reconvened at 8:05 p.m.   
 
Ms. James stated that the board would need to look at some remade ballots.  The first 
category consisted of ballots that were remade due to technical issues such as timing 
marks, smudges, and tears.  There were 20 ballots in this category.  Motion to approve 
these ballots as Ms. Salyers and Ms. James remade them was made by Mr. Smith, 
seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
The second category consisted of ballots that were remade due to hesitation marks or 
overvotes.  Motion to approve these five ballots as Ms. Salyers and Ms. James remade 
them was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Finally, there was one ballot with a hesitation mark on the treasurer’s race.  Mr. 
Ferrell left the room and did not participate in this vote since it was the race involving 
his wife.  Motion to approve the remade ballot with a vote for Caleb Stidham was made 
by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
 
Motion to go back into recess was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  
Motion carried.  Board went back into recess at 8:14 p.m.   
 
Motion to reconvene was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion 
carried.  Board reconvened at 9:15 p.m.   
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

There was one ballot that was remade due to the original being ripped.  However, a 
vote for one of the Sandusky city charter amendments could not be cast, because that is 
where the ballot was ripped, and the board could not determine how the voter 
originally voted.  Motion to approve the remade ballot was made by Mr. Smith, 
seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to go back into recess was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.  Board went back into recess at 9:16 p.m.   
 
Once all ballots were tabulated and results were uploaded to the Secretary of State, 
Mr. Ferrell stated that we are now back in session.  Motion to adjourn was made by 
Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  Board adjourned at 9:50 
p.m.   
 
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

