The pre-election meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, February 27th, 2023 at 4:01 p.m.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Amy Grubbe 
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, reviewed numbers for absentee voting.  She stated that 
early voting ended today at 2:00 p.m.  We had 793 people vote early, in office.  We have 
mailed 302 ballots and received back 272, which means we have 30 outstanding.  We had 
one hand-carry, and we have received that ballot back.  We have had zero nursing home 
voters, and zero military and overseas voters.  There are zero overvoted ballots for the 
board to review.   
 
Mr. Monaghan made a motion to recess until tomorrow at 7:00 p.m., with Ms. Crescimano 
seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
On Tuesday, February 28th, Mr. Monaghan made a motion to reconvene, with Ms. 
Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  Board reconvened 
at 7:00 p.m.  Rachel Ruffer from the Secretary of State’s Office was present as a guest.   
 
Ms. James stated there are still no overvoted absentee ballots for the board to review.  She 
also reviewed the process they would follow once the polls close at 7:30 p.m.   
 
Ms. Crescimano stated there is a budget meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with County 
Administrator Hank Solowiej and stated that Ms. James should attend.  Ms. Crescimano 
will be present at the meeting as well.   
 
Ms. James stated that today is the last day for Director Lori Salyers and she wants to thank 
her for her service.  She stated that Ms. Salyers has done a really great job and has made 
the office a fun and relaxed place to work.  She stated that full-timers, part-timers, and poll 
workers appreciate what Lori has done for us.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated she could not have done it without the girls.  She said we are a fantastic 
team and that we worked well together.  Mr. Ferrell acknowledged that Ms. Salyers came 
in at a difficult time, while Mr. Monaghan stated that she didn’t receive much training.   
 
Ms. Ruffer presented Ms. Salyers a letter of commendation from Secretary of State Frank 
LaRose which congratulated her on her retirement and thanked her for her service to the 
voters of Erie County.  Ms. Ruffer stated we recognize that Lori has worked under 
tremendously difficult circumstances on many fronts.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated there were some things said during Friday’s meeting that she wants to 
clarify.  She stated she spoke with Tom Johnson, the fire chief in Margaretta Township.  
Mr. Johnson said he understood completely why we moved out of the township hall.  Ms. 
Salyers also said that we discussed moving out of the Margaretta Township Hall at a board 
meeting in September and no one objected.  She then said that it is one person in 
Margaretta who is a poll worker and stirring up trouble.  Mr. Johnson said he is tired of 
dealing with this and he wants to put it to rest.  Also, Margaretta Township did not spend 
$5,000 to fix up the township hall for the Board of Elections.  They spent $40,000 to bring 
the building up to code because that is where they hold township meetings.  Ms. Salyers 
then stated this is not the first time mistruths have been spoken about her and on her.  
Since this is her last meeting, she wants to straighten things out.   
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2

Ms. Crescimano asked if the poll worker in question is still working for us.  Ms. Salyers 
stated she would recommend that she does not.  She stated that the poll worker accused the 
pastor of the church where she was working of ripping up political signs and cursing at 
voters.  Ms. Salyers called the other poll workers at the church, who said that was not true.  
Ms. Salyers stated that what the poll worker is doing is slanderous, and that could open us 
up to a lawsuit.  She also stated that she knows the pastor of the church and that she is a 
sweet woman.  Ms. Crescimano stated her concern is that we don’t hire the poll worker 
again.  Ms. Salyers stated she thinks that is a wise decision.  Mr. Monaghan agreed.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked how it worked out moving the Sandusky A precinct.  Ms. James 
stated we didn’t hear any complaints.  Ms. Salyers stated we did have a few poll pad issues 
today.  When the precinct support person updated the pads with the isync drives, a 
message popped up saying we can use passports as IDs.  However, we are not permitted to 
accept passports as ID until the next election.  Ms. Salyers explained that we told our 
workers this in class.   
 
Mr. Monaghan made a motion to recess, with Mr. Krabill seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  The board recessed at 7:13 p.m.  
 
At 7:30 p.m., Ms. Salyers and Ms. James went outside to check the dropbox.  They then 
scanned the rest of the absentee ballots, tabulated the absentee results, and uploaded the 
absentee results on the website.  As the poll workers returned the memory sticks from the 
polling locations, Ms. Salyers and Ms. James read the results on the sticks and uploaded 
those on the website, too.  
 
Mr. Monaghan made a motion to reconvene, with Mr. Krabill seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.  Board reconvened at 8:52 p.m.  
 
Ms. James stated that the unofficial results are now in.  There were 1,512 election day 
ballots cast and 1,080 absentee ballots cast for a total of 2,592 ballots.  Turnout was 15.89 
percent.  There were 850 Yes votes and 1,741 No votes.  The board members then signed 
the unofficial results page to scan and send to the SOS office.   
 
Ms. Crescimano made a motion to adjourn, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 8:53 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
Adrienne G. James, Deputy Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2

