The official canvass and regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections 
was called to order by Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, August 21st, 2023 at 3:00 
p.m.     
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member               Present 
                        (R) Nancy C. McKeen, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Jason Hinners from Erie County Prosecutor’s Office, Rachel Ruffer 
from Secretary of State’s Office, MaryAnn Groot, Amy Grubbe, Steve Lippert, Hallie 
Minich-Lippert, Diane Schaefer, and Carolyn Schreck-Mitchell 
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, reviewed absentee ballots received after Election Day.  
Twenty absentee ballots received after Election Day are eligible to be counted.  Of those 20, 
18 are non-UOCAVA ballots that arrived in the mail within four days of Election Day and 
had a post-mark of August 7th or earlier.  One is a UOCAVA ballots that arrived in the 
mail within four days of Election Day.  The last one is a non-UOCAVA ballot that had a 
deficiency, but the voter submitted the 11-s correction form which arrived in our office 
within four days of Election Day.  The board members took a few moments to review those 
absentee ballots.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to accept the 20 eligible absentee ballots, with 
Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. James reviewed the ten absentee ballots received after Election Day that are not 
eligible to be counted.  Of the ten, five are non-UOCAVA ballots that arrived in the mail 
after four days past Election Day.  Two are UOCAVA ballots that arrived in the mail after 
four days past Election Day.  One is a non-UOCAVA ballots that had a deficiency, and the 
11-s correction form arrived after four days past Election Day.  One is a non-UOCAVA 
ballot with a postmark past August 7th.  The last one is a non-UOCAVA ballot with no 
postmark, and the barcode was unreadable.  The board members took a few moments to 
review those absentee ballots.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to reject the 10 ineligible absentee 
ballots, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
 
Eliza Link, Clerk, reviewed provisional ballots.  There were 237 provisional ballots cast 
this election.  Of those, 33 were cast early, in office, 25 were cast Election Day in office, and 
179 were cast Election Day at the polling locations.   
 
160 provisional ballots are eligible to be counted, per the Elections Officials Manual.  Eight 
are name changes where the voters were registered in Erie County but did not have proof 
of their name changes.  66 are address changes within Erie County.  68 are voters who were 
registered in another Ohio county and did not vote in that county.  Six are voters who were 
mailed an absentee ballot but decided to vote on Election Day, and did not return their 
absentee ballot.  Five are voters who were in a provisional status due to an undeliverable 
acknowledgement notice.  Seven are voters who had no valid ID, but came to the Board of 
Elections Office within four days of Election Day to present a valid ID.   
 
Next, Ms. Link presented provisional ballots that are not eligible to be counted.  40 are not 
registered to vote anywhere in the state of Ohio.  Both Ms. Link and Ms. James verified 
this on the statewide portal.  Per the EOM, if the provisional voter is not registered to vote 
anywhere in Ohio at least 30 days before the election, the board must reject the provisional 
ballot.  However, these provisional voters will be registered to vote after this election.  21 
provisional voters did not have a valid photo ID, and did not come to the Board of 
Elections within four days of Election Day to present a valid photo ID.  Nine provisional 
voters did not complete Section 5, which is the ID section, of the 12-B provisional

Elections within four days of Election Day to present a valid photo ID.  Nine provisional 
voters did not complete Section 5, which is the ID section, of the 12-B provisional 
identification envelope, meaning the board must reject their provisional ballot.  Finally, 
one provisional voter left the 12-B envelope completely blank.   
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 6

Ms. Link then discussed provisional ballots that are pending review.  On the first one, the 
voter wrote the correct month and date of their birth, but wrote their birth year as “23.”  
Ms. Link indicated the exception for counting a provisional ballot where the DOB is 
incorrect—if the Board of Elections finds by a vote of at least three of its members that the 
voter has met all other requirements, then the ballot may be counted.  Ms. Link printed the 
voter’s record from the statewide database, which indicates the voter’s signature and 
month and date of birth matches with what is on the ID envelope.  The board members 
took a few moments to review.  
 
The second provisional ballot pending review is from a voter who came to our office on 
Election Day to vote.  Staff informed the voter that only provisional voters may vote at the 
Board of Elections on Election Day; all other voters must go to their polling location.  The 
voter refused to go to their polling location, so we issued the voter a provisional ballot.   
 
The next two ballots pending review are from two voters who did not need to vote 
provisionally.  They came to the Board of Elections during early voting and stated they had 
moved without updating their address, but they did update their address, so they did not 
need to vote provisionally.   
 
The next provisional ballot pending review is from a voter who is homeless.  The voter 
stated they no longer reside at the habitation listed in our system.  They completed a 12-B 
provisional ballot ID envelope and wrote a PO Box in Vermilion as their new residence.  
The voter also wrote some comments on the envelope that they are allowed to use a PO box 
for voter registration.  Staff gave the voter a Vermilion city ballot to vote, then contacted 
Mr. Hinners for clarification.   
 
Mr. Hinners stated that a PO box is not a sufficient address for voting, but it can be used as 
a mailing address.  For someone who is homeless, they don’t need to have an address.  They 
can write “under such and such bypass” or some type of language to identify where they 
reside, but a PO box is not sufficient.  
 
The last provisional ballot pending review is a provisional ballot due to an address change.  
The voter voted early, in our office.  They should have voted a provisional ballot for 
Sandusky O, but due to staff error, they were given a provisional ballot for Perkins 
Township #1. 
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to count the 160 provisional ballots in the first category of 
“Acceptable.”  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to not count the 71 provisional ballots in the second category of 
“Not Acceptable.”  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; 
motion carried.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to not count the provisional ballot where the voter wrote the 
incorrect birth year.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  Ms. Grubbe asked if everything 
else matches, why would it not be counted?  Ms. Crescimano asked what the voter used as 
an ID.  Ms. Link stated she used a driver’s license.  She also stated the voter was voting 
provisionally because she changed her last name.   
 
Ms. Crescimano withdrew her motion, then motioned to count the ballot with the incorrect 
birth year.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to not count the provisional ballot where the voter refused to go 
to the correct polling location.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.   
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 6

Ms. Crescimano motioned to count the two provisional ballots that did not need to be 
provisional.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to not count the provisional ballot with a PO box listed as the 
residence.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to count the provisional ballot that was cast for the wrong 
precinct due to office error.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to recess, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  Board recessed at 3:30 p.m.  While in recess, bipartisan board 
staff opened ID envelopes and scanned eligible absentee and provisional ballots.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to reconvene, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.  Board reconvened at 5:00 p.m.  
 
Ms. James stated that while scanning eligible absentee ballots, there was one ballot that 
would not scan due to a hesitation mark.  She and Alex Jones, Director, interpreted the 
ballot to be a no vote and remade the ballot accordingly.  The board members took a few 
moments to review the ballot.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to count the remade ballot, with 
Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  The board 
recessed again at 5:02 p.m.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to reconvene, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.  Board reconvened at 5:19 p.m.  
 
Ms. James stated that one eligible provisional ballot would not scan due to the timing 
marks, so she and Mr. Jones remade the ballot.  The board members took a few moments 
to review the ballot.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to count the remade ballot, with Mr. 
Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  The board recessed 
again at 5:20 p.m.  
 
The board reconvened at 5:45 p.m.  Ms. James stated we have finished scanning the eligible 
absentee and provisional ballots.  There were 9,259 yes votes, 12,267 no votes, and 21,531 
total ballots cast.  Voter turnout was 40.48%.  The board members, director, and deputy 
signed the official certification of results page to send to the Secretary of State’s office.  
 
Ms. Grubbe commented that there were 163 provisional ballots counted, but 164 
provisionals eligible to be counted.  Ms. James stated that one provisional voter who voted 
early in office did not follow instructions and instead of placing their ballot in the yellow 
provisional ID envelope, fed their ballot through the scanner.  Once the ballot was fed 
through the scanner, there was nothing we could do.  The person was voting provisionally 
due to an address change, so it would have counted regardless.   
 
Next, the board discussed the date and time of the post-election audit.  Ms. James stated 
that per the EOM, if there is no recount, the audit may start six days after the official 
results are declared, and must be complete by the 21st day.  The earliest we can do it is 
Sunday, August 27th, and the latest we can do it is Monday, September 11th.  The board 
decided to conduct the audit on Monday, August 28th at 10:00 a.m.   
 
The board members then randomly picked flash drives to decide which voting machines to 
audit.  Staff must audit at least five percent of the ballots cast, which is 1,077.  The first 
machine chosen was the Sandusky H and I DS200, where 335 ballots were cast.  The second 
machine chosen was the Vermilion 1-A, 2-A, and 2-B DS200, where 763 ballots were cast.  
In total, this is 1,098 ballots.   
 
 
 
Page 3 of 6

Mr. Monaghan motioned to approve the minutes from the July 28th and the August 7th/8th 
meetings, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Mr. Jones presented the August bills to the board.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to pay the 
August bills as presented, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; 
motion carried.   
 
For the Director’s Report, Mr. Jones stated that the commissioners approved to replenish 
our funds with the chargeback money from the May election.  He also stated he recently 
did an end-of-year forecast.  We will have deficits in some line items, but other line items 
we will have surpluses.  For example, we will be short in full-time salaries, but we should 
have more than enough to make up for that in part-time salaries.   
 
Under new business was approval of candidate petitions for the November General 
Election.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the candidates listed, with Mr. Monaghan 
seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  The candidates approved are as 
follows:  
 
• Joel D. Hagy, Huron City Council  
• Thomas Harris, Huron City Council 
• Carolyn Mitchell, Huron City Council 
• Richard Koonce, Sandusky City Commission 
• Lisa Maczuga, Sandusky City Commission 
• Helen Barbara Thompson, Sandusky City Commission 
• Kate Vargo, Sandusky City Commission 
• Susan M. Zeier, Sandusky City Commission 
• Lisa Marcum Tittle, Berlin Heights Village Council 
• Joseph P. Myers, Berlin Heights Village Council 
• Scott Stevenson, Kelleys Island Village Council 
• Tony Rutherford, Bayview Village Council 
• Barbara E. Weyer, Castalia Village Council 
• Mary Bruno, Milan Village Mayor 
• Pamela A. Crosby, Milan Village Mayor 
• Victoria P. Riddle, Milan Village Council 
• Orville Sayler, Florence Township Trustee 
• Raymond Enderle, Huron Township Trustee, Unexpired Term 
• Jonathan Merkcens, Huron Township Trustee, Unexpired Term 
• Robert D. Day, Margaretta Township Fiscal Officer 
• Edward N. Cullen, Margaretta Township Trustee 
• Chris L. Schaeffer, Margaretta Township Trustee 
• Phillip M. David, Oxford Township Fiscal Officer 
• Alexis Lewis, Perkins Township Fiscal Officer 
• James C. Ommert, Perkins Township Trustee 
• Paul E. Meisel III, Vermilion Township Fiscal Officer 
• Keith M. Sexton, Vermilion Township Trustee 
• Joe Baxter, Vermilion Township Trustee, Unexpired Term 
• Robert Kurtz, Vermilion Township Trustee, Unexpired Term 
• Marianne Cheetham, North Point ESC Erie 
• Daryl L. Deering, North Point ESC Erie 
• Philip D. Thiede, North Point ESC Erie, Unexpired Term 
• Judith A. Sander, North Point ESC Ottawa 
• Brian P. Chase, Edison Board of Education 
• Patricia Cuthberston, Edison Board of Education 
• Stephen Berry, Edison Board of Education, Unexpired Term 
• Brian D. Sutorius, Margaretta Board of Education 
• Jason Everett Dulaney, Perkins Board of Education 
• Scott Hart, Perkins Board of Education 
• Bradley W. Mitchel, Perkins Board of Education 
 
Page 4 of 6

• William L. Willis IV, Perkins Board of Education 
• Mark Harper, Sandusky City Board of Education 
• Whitney Pohorence, Sandusky City Board of Education 
• Monicia L. Hall, Sandusky City Board of Education 
• Mark S. Benson Jr., Vermilion Board of Education 
• Christopher Aaron Hinds, Vermilion Board of Education 
• Krystal Russell, Vermilion Board of Education 
• Sarah Scarvelli, Vermilion Board of Education 
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the write-in candidate for the November General 
Election, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
The write-in candidate approved was Kathryn H. Drewyor for Huron City Board of 
Education.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the requested candidate name changes for the 
November General Election, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted 
yes; motion carried.  The approved name changes are as follows:  
 
• Mark S. Benson Jr. → Mark Benson 
• Edward N. Cullen → Ed Cullen 
• Jason Everett Dulaney → Jason E. Dulaney 
• Raymond Enderle-> Ray Enderle 
• Monicia L. Hall-> Monicia Pearson-Hall 
• Alexis Lewis → Alexis Lewis-Koch  
• Paul E. Meisel III → Paul Meisel 
• Carolyn Mitchell → Carolyn Schreck-Mitchell 
• James C. Ommert → Jim Ommert 
 
Next, there were two petitions to vote on individually.  Mr. Jones stated that two potential 
candidates, Connie Ward and Georgia Artrip, filed petitions for Berlin Heights mayor and 
Castalia Village council, respectively.  Both had enough valid signatures, but did not 
complete the nominating portion of their petition.  Mr. Hinners stated that by statute, the 
statement of candidacy and nominating portion of the petition are supposed to be 
substantially compliant.  However, with both these petitions there was zero compliance, 
because the section was left completely blank.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to reject the 
petitions, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Mr. Jones stated there are three issues for the November General Election for the board to 
approve: Sandusky City Parks and Recreation levy, Castalia Village Police levy, and 
Castalia Village Natural Gas Aggregate Question.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve 
the three issues, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
Next, there was one issue for the November General Election for the board to vote on 
individually.  Mr. Jones stated that Jim West Jr. from Jim’s Pizza Box in Milan submitted 
local option petitions for Sunday sales last month.  These petitions must have an affidavit 
attached.  The affidavit given to us was signed and notarized but was otherwise incomplete.  
We asked Mr. Hinners for clarification.  Mr. Jones then spoke with Mr. West and said the 
way it’s submitted right now, it would not count.  Mr. West then withdrew his original 
petitions, recirculated new petitions, and turned in the new petitions and a new, properly 
completed affidavit.  The question now is whether that is allowed.   
 
Mr. Hinners stated, “The statutory language as it relates to questions and issues says no 
petition presented to or filed with the Board of Elections for the purpose of the holding an 
election on a question or issue may be resubmitted after it is withdrawn from a public 
office or rejected as containing insufficient signatures.”  He then stated the language is 
pretty clear that you can’t resubmit after it’s withdrawn, and they withdrew their first set 
of petitions because ultimately they weren’t compliant.   
 
 
Page 5 of 6

Mr. Hinners stated there is no case law on this.  There is case law on candidates, because a 
candidate can withdraw their candidacy and resubmit petitions.  Mr. Hinners stated he 
contacted the SOS office on Friday, who told him the same.  The SOS office also referenced 
the same statutory code that he did.  When he asked how other county BOEs have handled 
this, the person he spoke with said that some counties allow it and some don’t.  Some 
counties perhaps find ways to justify it.  Mr. Hinners stated that the language is clear to 
him, but ultimately, it’s the board’s decision.  The way the language reads, you’re not 
allowed to resubmit after it’s withdrawn, and he believes that is what happened here.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked when Mr. West withdrew his first petitions.  Mr. Jones stated he’d have 
to go back and look, but he thinks it was maybe the Thursday or Friday before the election.  
Mr. Hinners stated he sent his opinion to the board on July 31st, so it would have been 
between the 31st and the 9th.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that when Mr. West came to the Board of Elections to file his first 
petitions, someone said his affidavit wasn’t notarized, so he went upstairs to the 
commissioners’ office to get it notarized.  Mr. Jones confirmed that was correct.  He stated 
that there are two affidavits on one page, and which one you need depends on which type of 
petition you are submitting.  Because Mr. West was submitting a 5-R petition, he needed 
the bottom affidavit complete.  One of his contentions was that the individual who 
notarized his affidavit did not inform him that the affidavit was not complete.  Ms. 
Crescimano stated that is not the notary’s responsibility.   
 
Ms. McKeen asked, “So some counties allow this?”  Mr. Hinners replied that is what the 
SOS office told him.  For what reason, he doesn’t know.  Ms. Crescimano stated that if they 
allow it, another local business could decide to dispute it.  She does not personally foresee 
that happening, but you never know.  Mr. Hinners stated in his experience at the 
prosecutor’s office, he’s found that there are 88 different ways things are done based on the 
county.  Mr. Ferrell stated that it is a relatively small business.  Ms. Crescimano stated that 
they already have a liquor license; this is just for Sunday sales.  Mr. Monaghan motioned 
to approve the local liquor option for Jim’s Pizza Box in Milan, with Ms. Crescimano 
seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
The next item under “New Business” was allocation of voting equipment and poll workers 
for the November General Election.  Mr. Jones recommended one DS200 and one 
Expressvote per polling location and a full slate of precinct election officials for each 
precinct.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to accept this allocation, with Mr. Monaghan 
seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve candidate petitions for Caleb A. Stidham for County 
Treasurer for the March 19th, 2024 Primary Election.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the 
motion.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. James presented the tentative 2024 board meeting calendar to the board.  Ms. 
Crescimano asked to move the December monthly meeting from December 20th to 
December 19th.  No other changes were requested.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve 
the calendar with the one change, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.   
 
There being no other matters to come before the board, Ms. Crescimano motioned to 
adjourn, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 6:12 p.m.  
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
Page 6 of 6

