The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, August 16th, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member   Present 
                        (D) MaryAnn Groot, Member               Present 
                        (R) John C. Adams, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Rachel Ruffer from Ohio Secretary of State’s office, Jason Hinners 
from Erie County Prosecutor’s Office, and Amy Grubbe 
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the minutes from the July 26th regular meeting, with 
Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
 
Under New Business was review of petitions filed for the November 2024 General Election.  
Four establishments submitted petitions for local liquor options.  The staff reviewed them 
and determined they had enough valid signatures.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve 
the petitions, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
The petitions approved are:  
 
• Local Liquor Option, Pipe Creek Warf, Sunday Sales 
 
• Local Liquor Option, Sandusky Book Bar, Sunday Sales 
 
• Local Liquor Option, Lake Erie Arms, Sunday Sales 
 
• Local Liquor Option, Mulberry Creek Winery, Sunday Sales 
 
Two subdivisions submitted paperwork to place charter amendments on the ballot.  Ms. 
Crescimano motioned to approve the issue filings as listed, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All 
board members voted yes; motion carried.  The four issues approved are:  
 
• City of Huron, Charter Amendment, To Remove the Section regarding Allotments 
 
• City of Huron, Charter Amendment, To Update the Duties of City Manager 
 
• City of Huron, Charter Amendment, To Clarify the Duties of City Council 
 
• Village of Castalia, Charter Amendment, To Raise the Minimum for Competitive 
Bidding  
 
Alex Jones, Director, presented the August bills to the board.  The biggest expense is a re-
up of our postage with Pitney Bowes.  We have about $8,000 in postage, but it will cost 
almost $1 to mail a ballot, and we are anticipating mailing between 10,000 and 13,000 
ballots this fall.  We have not replenished the account since December 2022.  The money 
will come from our printing and advertising line item.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to 
approve the August bills, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.  
 
For the Director’s Report, Mr. Jones stated the counter renovation is almost finished.  We 
are excited to see how it will speed up the early voting process in the fall.  He also noted 
that all board members and staff are required this year to take fraud training from the 
Auditor of State.   
 
Today is our last day for shooting poll worker training videos.  We received a grant from 
the state that will cover it.  These videos will be a supplement to the regular training.  All 
poll workers are required to attend in-person training this year.  Mr. Jones also asked the 
board members to be on the lookout for anyone interested in working the polls.  The state’s 
goal is for us to hire 115% of the workers we need, which comes out to about 285.  
 
Page 1 of 5

Adrienne James, Deputy Director, presented the proposed board meeting calendar for 
2025.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to adopt the 2025 calendar, with Ms. Groot seconding.  
All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Under Old Business was Policy Amendments and Revisions.  Mr. Jones sent a list of 
revisions that Ms. Groot presented to the staff.  He thinks it accurately reflects the changes 
Ms. Groot thinks would be good for our office.  Ms. Groot asked Ms. James if she had any 
thoughts.  Ms. James stated there are some amendments she agrees with and some she 
disagrees with.   
 
Mr. Adams stated he thinks some are good and others he’s not too sure.  He stated we have 
an agreement with the county commissioners that we will not change our employee manual 
without their okay.  Mr. Ferrell asked where Mr. Adams sees that agreement.  Mr. Adams 
replied that was what the commissioners told him.  
 
Mr. Hinners stated he is not aware of any discussions between the commissioners and the 
board.  There is not a written agreement that he is aware of.  You can certainly work with 
the commissioners, though.  Mr. Adams said he hates to start a war with them.   
 
Ms. Groot said, what I hear you saying is we need to 100% adhere to county policy until 
such time as you feel they would accept these amendments, starting Monday.  So that 
means the office would be open from 8:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m.  Ms. Crescimano stated that 
is not county policy.  Mr. Ferrell replied that is what Matt Wilson told him.   
 
Mr. Hinners stated that perhaps your discussion starts with what you as a board are 
comfortable with.  It doesn’t mean you have to adopt the policies today, but you can make 
a motion to bring these proposed amendments to the commissioners for their review.  Mr. 
Adams said he would be okay with that.  
 
Mr. Ferrell commented that we have been working on this for three months.  Ms. Groot 
said it was over three months.  She then asked what happens if the commissioners say no.  
Then what?  Do we go back to the drawing board?  Ms. Crescimano stated we would jump 
that hurdle when we have to.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked what the commissioners said.  Mr. Adams replied that they said we had 
an agreement that nothing was to be changed.  Mr. Ferrell stated he does not remember 
that agreement.  He also said that for this board to meet with the commissioners, it has to 
be a Republican and a Democrat, and that never occurred.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to present a draft policy to the commissioners for their review 
and comment.  Ms. Groot seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
Ms. Crescimano asked Ms. James what proposed amendments she had a problem with.  
Ms. James read the proposed text of “Staff hours must be between half hour before the 
opening of the office and half hour after the close of the office.”  Under normal 
circumstances that’s fine, but last summer we had to check thousands of signatures for 
state-wide issues.  We were sometimes here until 5:00 or 6:00 p.m.  If we had been 
following this rule last summer, we wouldn’t have been able to check all the signatures in a 
timely manner.   
 
Ms. Groot replied that she is talking about regular times.  What Ms. James is talking about 
is a different situation that would involve overtime for the clerks.  The proposed 
amendment does not refer to election time.  Ms. James replied that when you’re checking 
petitions, it’s not necessarily election time.  Mr. Ferrell suggested adding a line about 
“extenuating circumstances.”  
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 5

Ms. Crescimano commented on the proposed amendment regarding requests for 
reimbursement.  The Auditor does not reimburse us for taxes.  It’s in the county handbook.  
Ms. Groot replied that the proposed amendment says you should always seek to utilize tax 
exempt forms.  It doesn’t say you have to.   
 
Ms. Crescimano stated she has another problem with the proposed amendment on cell 
phone usage.  She thinks it creates a hostile work environment because it’s so limiting.  Mr. 
Ferrell asked what the county commissioners’ policy is on cell phones.  Ms. Crescimano 
stated she doesn’t know it word for word, but it’s not as restrictive as this.   
 
Mr. Hinners stated there is some consideration that cell phones are used differently now 
than they were 20 years ago.  If there’s an emergency, people call cell phones.  He read 
from the county policy: “Non-work related activity including that on an employee’s own 
device is restricted to unpaid lunch and/or break times.”  There is a provision in place, but 
if there’s an emergency, he doesn’t think anyone would have an issue.  To him, it’s a 
management issue.  If someone is on their cell phone too much, the director or deputy 
director would take care of that.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked what Ms. Groot’s proposed amendment reads.  Ms. Groot read, “Use of 
personal cell phones during election period shall be limited to official business pertaining to 
emergency situations regarding the safety of office personnel and PEOs and potential 
interference with regular duties of the board.”  Mr. Ferrell suggested adding the phrase 
“and personal emergencies.”  Mr. Hinners stated that non-work related activity is going to 
apply in an election period or not.  Mr. Adams stated it’s redundant.   
 
Mr. Hinners stated when it comes to ultimately approving this, his preference would be 
that you say, “To add the following.”  In one motion, he thinks the intent is to replace.  You 
need to indicate whether the proposals are to replace or add to the county policy.   
 
Mr. Adams stated he thinks the telephone motion is redundant.  He also thinks the travel 
request and reimbursement motion is not necessary.  Ms. Groot stated she thinks it is 
necessary.  Mr. Ferrell asked if there was any further discussion.  Mr. Hinners stated the 
question is, what do you want to provide to the Board of Commissioners?  He thinks you 
want to provide them with what you as a board are comfortable with.  Otherwise it’s a 
waste of their time.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated he thinks Ms. Groot is trying to prevent people from scrolling on 
Facebook or Tik Tok.  You see it everywhere, although he’s not saying it happens here.  
Mr. Jones stated there’s a social media section in the county policy.  He doesn’t know it 
word for word, but the intent is that personal use of social media is for unpaid lunch and 
breaks.  Mr. Adams said if it’s already spelled out, there’s no need to be redundant.   
 
Ms. Groot stated the county policy restricts personal cell phone use to lunch and breaks.  
We’re saying that during the election period, we’re allowing them to use their cell phones 
for the safety of office personnel and PEOs.  So we’re enhancing the policy.  Mr. Hinners 
replied that that is work-related.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated we could have ironed all this out during the work session, but it never 
occurred.  Mr. Adams indicated that was because at that time, we didn’t have the ideas 
reduced down to the paper that Mr. Jones typed.  Mr. Ferrell asked for Mr. Adams’ 
suggestion.  Mr. Adam replied, “What we’re doing right now.”  He wants to make sure 
we’re not doing anything to restrict our employees in ways that aren’t good for them.  He 
doesn’t think there is any reason to rush this.  He noted that we’re heading into a 
Presidential Election, and that we are further along now than we were before.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that we’re not following the county policy at this point in time.  Mr.

Presidential Election, and that we are further along now than we were before.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that we’re not following the county policy at this point in time.  Mr. 
Adams replied that apparently it hasn’t been a problem.  Mr. Ferrell stated that’s not the 
point.  Mr. Adams stated he wouldn’t be opposed going to the commissioners and saying 
we’re not following this—do we have a grace period until we get these things worked on? 
 
Page 3 of 5

Mr. Hinners stated that ultimately this is your policy.  You don’t necessarily need the 
commissioners’ permission to follow the policy.  This is your policy; it just happens to be 
the same policy as the county.  Mr. Adams said if he understands it correctly, the 
agreement was to accept the county’s policy manual.   
 
Mr. Ferrell said you keep referencing an agreement.  What agreement?  Mr. Adams said 
the commissioners believe there is an agreement regarding the policy.  Mr. Ferrell replied 
that he does not remember an agreement and that an agreement is not reflected in our 
minutes.  Mr. Jones stated that you can call it an agreement or understanding, but the 
third floor has the understanding that the Board of Elections will adhere to county policy.  
This was in exchange for paying out the previous director’s comp time balance.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked where that is journalized.  It’s not in the minutes upstairs.  Mr. Jones 
replied it was his understanding that an understanding was reached in executive session.  
Mr. Ferrell asked where that was journalized.  Mr. Jones replied that you don’t journalize 
executive session.  Mr. Ferrell stated he understands that, but for anything to happen, you 
have to come out of executive session and make a motion in regular session.   
 
Mr. Adams stated there aren’t any exigent circumstances that mean we have to get this 
done immediately, especially right before an election.  Mr. Ferrell stated that we hold other 
county workers to the county policy, and he feels our employees should follow the county 
policy.  He also stated Ms. Groot is trying to address some of the issues that the county 
policy does not fully address.   
 
Mr. Adams stated that to Jason’s point, if we’re going to submit this to the commissioners, 
it needs to be in a fashion that we’re all ready to say this is what we want to happen.  Ms. 
Groot suggested another work session.  Ms. Crescimano stated she was not available until 
after Labor Day.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated we need to follow county policy.  Mr. Adams asked What does that 
mean?  Ms. Crescimano stated to do what you’re doing now.  Mr. Ferrell replied that’s not 
county policy.  Ms. Crescimano stated that as far as she’s concerned, they’re creating a 
hostile work environment.  Since November 2022, the office has been working together and 
everything’s been going fine.  Now all of a sudden it’s wrong.   
 
Mr. Adams asked what we have been doing the past two years that’s wrong.  Mr. Ferrell 
replied working through lunch, leaving early, and time sheets.  There was no continuity on 
how hours were kept for part-time personnel.  Mr. Hinners asked if that was in this 
document.  Ms. Groot replied no, but we’ve had discussions on this before.  Mr. Hinners 
stated that there are two items in play here.  One is that there maybe needs to be some 
changes to reflect this office and then there are other items that because of past practice 
need to be cleaned up a bit.    
 
Mr. Ferrell stated he thinks Ms. Groot’s purpose is to journalize some things so that future 
boards have something to work with.  Mr. Adams stated that what this group has done 
over the past two years has been stellar.  Ms. Groot replied that we’re not arguing about 
that.  Mr. Adams stated there’s a reason he’s saying it.  They’ve done a great job, so these 
things are not super important.  Let’s walk through them, not run through them.  He’s 
happy to continue making progress, he just doesn’t think it’s ready for a vote.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked for Mr. Adams, Ms. Groot, Mr. Jones, Ms. James, and Mr. Hinners to 
have a meeting to discuss.  Mr. Jones said we would need to hurry, because the state is 
sending absentee requests the first week of September.  Ms. Crescimano asked what is a 
couple more months?  After some discussion, they decided to meet on Monday, August 26th 
at 10:00 a.m.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to adjourn, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members

couple more months?  After some discussion, they decided to meet on Monday, August 26th 
at 10:00 a.m.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to adjourn, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourn ed at 9:53 a.m.  
 
 
 
Page 4 of 5

Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 5

