The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, April 26th, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member   Present 
                        (D) MaryAnn Groot, Member               Present 
                        (R) John C. Adams, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Erie County Sheriff Paul Sigsworth, Jason Hinners from Erie 
County Prosecutor’s Office, Amy Grubbe, Stephen Lippert, and Hallie Minich Lippert 
 
Ms. Groot motioned to go into executive session, pursuant to O.R.C. 121.22(G)(6), to 
consider details relative to security arrangements for a public office that if disclosed could 
reasonably be expected to jeopardize the security of the public office.  Ms. Crescimano 
seconded the motion.  Adrienne James, Deputy Director, took a roll call vote.  
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Ms. Crescimano- yes 
Ms. Groot- yes 
Mr. Adams- yes.  
 
The motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 9:01 a.m.  Sheriff Sigsworth and 
Mr. Hinners attended the executive session.  
 
The board resumed regular session at 9:30 a.m.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the minutes from the April 1st official canvass, 
official certification, and regular meeting, and the minutes from the April 10th post-election 
audit meeting.  Ms. Groot seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
Alex Jones, Director, gave the financial report.  He stated we need a Then and Now 
Certificate for a bill the board approved last month that was from 2023.  Ms. Crescimano 
motioned to approve the Then and Now Certificate for Triad GSI in the amount of 
$1,261.98.  Ms. Groot seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Mr. Jones stated we received all our bills from the March election.  In even years, we can 
only charge back the cost of ballots and advertising to subdivisions with issues on the 
ballot.  We have that ready to send to the Auditor’s Office.  Mr. Jones also presented the 
monthly bills for the board’s review.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the April bills 
as submitted, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
For the Director’s Report, Mr. Jones noted that Summer Conference has been scheduled 
for June 25th and 26th.  For the two new board members, there is new election official 
training on June 24th.  Mr. Jones also stated that we received our reimbursement check 
from the state for our new electronic poll pads.  The bill was $69,000, and we were 
reimbursed about $50,000.   
 
Under new business was the consideration of petitions.  Loretta Riddle submitted petitions 
to run for Judge of Court of Common Pleas as an independent.  She needed 290 valid 
signatures.  She submitted 790, and of those, 587 are valid.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to 
approve the petitions, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
For “Any other matters to come before the board,” Mr. Ferrell asked if there is an IT 
problem after hours, what would we do?  Can our IT company provide services to us on 
Election Night?  Mr. Jones stated that we have a meeting next month with Bob from 
Netpoint, and we can ask him about it then.   
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

Ms. Groot asked if we could schedule a time to discuss the policy book.  Ms. Crescimano 
stated we need to give Mr. Adams a little time to get acclimated and review the policy book.  
Ms. Groot asked if we should wait until July.  Mr. Ferrell stated he thinks we should do it 
before the convention.  Ms. Crescimano stated she received the list of topics Ms. Groot 
wants to review, but she didn’t say specifically why she wanted to review those sections.  
Ms. Groot replied that we need to discuss it in a room together.  
 
Ms. Crescimano stated that if the policy book is good enough for other county employees, it 
should be good enough for us.  Mr. Ferrell noted that there’s certain issues that come up in 
this office that don’t in other departments, such as working on Sundays and overtime 
mandated by the state.  Ms. Crescimano asked for a copy of the current county policy book 
for Mr. Adams to review.   
 
Mr. Lippert indicated the board members received a letter regarding starting each meeting 
with the Pledge of Allegiance and a prayer.  He asked if that could be placed on the agenda 
for a future meeting.  Mr. Ferrell replied that the chairman controls the agenda, and he is 
not placing that on the agenda.   
 
Mr. Lippert stated there is a meeting on Thursday, May 9th that he would like to invite 
everyone to.  The meeting is intended to be nonpartisan, and he and Ms. Minich-Lippert 
would appreciate it being shared.  The letter that Mr. Lippert distributed to board 
members and staff is below:  
 
“Dear Citizen, Government Official, Friend, Patriot, 
 
We are sending this letter to you and others who love our country, value our constitution and 
insist that election validity and transparency be an absolute requirement in our coming 
November 2024 Election. 
 
OPINIONS VARY–some believe our Ohio elections are rock-solid–a model for the nation. 
Others believe, despite honest and committed effort, Ohio, like every other state, has serious 
integrity challenges. Lets talk together! Our elections are a Civil Rights matter–impacting every 
American citizen. 
 
• DO YOU KNOW THIS 2022 ‘BLONDE HAIR’ ANALOGY? Dr. Douglas G. Frank an Ohio 
citizen–also a 40-year modeler of pandemics and elections comments: Just imagine examining 
census data across different states. Regardless of size, demographics, or location, in Ohio each 
and every county inexplicably reports exactly 10% blonde hair. Yet, crossing state lines reveals 
a different story; in Pennsylvania, blond hair consistently is 13.4%, in Florida 15.1%, and in 
Colorado 18.6%. Logically speaking, this inconsistency suggests that the number of people with 
blonde hair is determined at a state level but regulated at a county level. 
 
Dr. Frank discovered a special “election key” (a peculiar algorithmic pattern) that allows him to 
accurately predict voter registration and turnout by age–with no actual historical election data. 
Amazing–this key, applied in one county in the State of Washington, could predict the voter 
registration and turnout by age in other Washington counties! 
 
He also analyzed 17 states (including Ohio). ALL revealed consistent patterns across 
demographically diverse counties! For Ohio to have registration and turnout rates that 
repeatedly reflect a common mathematical formula across numerous demographically-unique 
counties is an indication that voter rolls and votes themselves may have been illegally 
manipulated via a computer algorithm. 
 
• ELECTION–NOVEMBER 2024 IS COMING QUICKLY–OHIO CITIZENS WANT AND NEED 
AN ELECTION VALIDITY AND TRANSPARENCY SCORECARD. Hallie & I found that kind of 
Scorecard. This Scorecard template was developed by United Sovereign Americans (USA)–
first used it in New York State. USA also used their election validity/transparency scorecard in 
Ohio and 18 other states. USA is passionate about transparent, unwaveringly lawful and

first used it in New York State. USA also used their election validity/transparency scorecard in 
Ohio and 18 other states. USA is passionate about transparent, unwaveringly lawful and 
trustworthy elections. For our 2024 election to be considered valid, what changes must happen 
in Ohio– and throughout the US before November? 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

United Sovereign Americans References: 
Meet Marly and Harry as they explain USA and the goal of clean voter roles: bit.ly/49PgCBA 
United Sovereign Americans (USA )website: https://unite4freedom.com/ 
 
• JOIN US ... INVITE A FRIEND! “USA Scorecard For Valid Elections: How does Ohio’s 
2022 Election Measure Up? What Changes Are Needed?” THURSDAY, MAY 9, 1:30 PM 
AT THE HURON PUBLIC LIBRARY (333 WILLIAMS ST., HURON, OHIO, 44839) 
+ Come to check out the USA Score Card on Ohio 
+ Become Familiar with Constitution and Federal/State Laws and Rules that apply to voters and 
the election process. 
+ Assess the fairness of the scorecard strategy and its data sources 
+ View and discuss scorecard conclusions. 
+ Meet/speak with USA Ohio spokesman: Thomas Woods. 
 
Cordially, 
Steve and Hallie Minich Lippert 
America First – Ohio ||| Keep America Great and First for Our Families! 
~ OPEN TO THE PUBLIC ~”  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to adjourn, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 9:43 a.m.  
 
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

