The pre-election meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Monday, March 18th, 2024 at 4:00 p.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member   Present 
                        (D) MaryAnn Groot, Member               Present 
                        (R) Nancy C. McKeen, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Jason Hinners from Erie County Prosecutor’s Office  
 
Alex Jones, Director, reviewed absentee voting numbers.  We are counting 1,055 mail-in 
ballots, 2,157 early in-person ballots, 4 UOCAVA email ballots, 1 UOCAVA mail ballot, 99 
nursing home ballots, 1 jail ballot, 28 handcarried ballots, 9 curbside ballots, and 1 
accessible ballot.  He stated the absentee numbers are lower than we originally expected, 
but comparable to the 2016 Primary.  
 
Ms. Groot noted we still had about 160 outstanding mail-in ballots, and asked if there was 
still time for people to turn them in.  Mr. Jones stated that ballots must be postmarked by 
today and delivered by Saturday, or delivered in person or in the dropbox by the close of 
polls tomorrow.   
 
Next, Mr. Jones presented overvoted absentee ballots to the board.  There are eight or nine 
true overvotes, where staff believes the voter clearly voted for more than they were 
permitted.  If the board members agree, we will run those ballots through the scanner with 
the overvote counter on.  Ms. Crescimano asked if the whole ballot would count except 
where they overvoted; Mr. Jones stated yes.  The board members took a few minutes to 
review.  Ms. McKeen motioned to accept the ballots as true overvotes, with Ms. Groot 
seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
The last ballot was not a true overvote.  Staff believed the voter tried correcting their 
mistake, so they remade the ballot for the board to review.  Mr. Ferrell called the motion to 
accept the remade ballot.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to recess, with Ms. McKeen seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  Board recessed at 4:08 p.m.  
 
On Tuesday, March 19th at 7:03 p.m., the board reconvened with all members present 
except Ms. McKeen.  Mr. Jones stated there are two absentee ballots to review.  The first is 
a true overvote for State Central Committee, Man.  The board members reviewed the 
ballot.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to accept the ballot as a true overvote, with Ms. Groot 
seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Mr. Jones stated the second ballot is not a true overvote.  The voter started to vote for one 
candidate, changed their mind, and tried correcting it.  Board staff remade the ballot how 
they believe the voter intended.  Ms. Crescimano needs to abstain from voting because it 
involves her race.  At 7:23 p.m., Ms. McKeen returned.  The board members, minus Ms. 
Crescimano, reviewed the ballot.  Ms. Groot motioned to approve the remade ballot, with 
Ms. McKeen seconding.  All board members except Ms. Crescimano voted yes.  Motion 
carried.   
 
At 7:30 p.m., the polls closed.  Mr. Jones and Adrienne James, Deputy Director, checked 
the dropbox, then uploaded the absentee results.  As the polls workers returned the 
memory sticks from the election day polling locations, they uploaded election day results, 
too.   
 
At 9:45 p.m., staff presented an Election Day 17-year-old ballot to the board.  Ms. James 
stated the 17-year-old voted on an issue, which they are not permitted to do.  She and Mr. 
Jones remade the ballot how the voter voted, but left the issue blank.  The board members 
reviewed the remade ballot.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to accept the remade ballot, with 
Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Page 1 of 2

At 10:09 p.m., the board reviewed the unofficial results.  Ms. James stated that total voter 
turnout in Erie County is 22.07 percent.  11,837 ballots were cast.  Ms. Groot asked how 
many provisionals there were.  Mr. Jones stated there were 55.  The board members, 
director, and deputy director signed the unofficial certification of results page to submit to 
the Secretary of State’s office.   
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to adjourn, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 10:10 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2

