The special meeting and post-election audit of the Erie County Board of Elections was 
called to order by Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Wednesday, June 1st, 2022 at 12:00 p.m.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Rachel Mullen from SOS office, Caleb Stidham, and Amy Grubbe 
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated that per Directive 2022-34, boards must re-certify 
petitions for Ohio house candidates by June 3rd.  The two candidates to certify are Douglas 
James Swearingen Jr., Republican, and James Obergefell, Democrat.  Both candidates are 
running for Ohio House, 89th District, and both had enough valid signatures.  Motion to 
certify their petitions was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion 
carried.   
 
Ms. James also indicated that both candidates completed name change forms.  Mr. 
Swearingen would like to appear on the ballot as D.J. Swearingen, while Mr. Obergefell 
would like to appear on the ballot as Jim Obergefell.  Motion to approve the name changes 
was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Lori Salyers, Director, stated that per the Secretary of State’s Office, if we have multi-
precinct locations for the August election, we can reduce the number of PEOs at those 
locations to two per precinct.  Ms. Salyers stated that some of the poll workers said this 
past election was very boring, and this upcoming election is probably going to be even 
slower.  Mr. Krabill stated he thinks reducing the number of PEOs in multi-precinct 
locations is reasonable, and it will save money.   
 
Motion to accept a reduction of PEOs for August was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded 
by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to go into recess was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion 
carried.  Board went into recess at 12:06 p.m.  While in recess, bipartisan board staff 
conducted the post-election audit.   
 
Motion to reconvene was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion 
carried.  Board reconvened at 1:52 p.m.   
 
Ms. James reviewed the results of the post-election audit.  Board staff audited election day 
ballots for Huron A and C, and election day ballots for Huron E and F.  The races audited 
were Democratic Governor, Republican U.S. Senator, and Republican Governor.  The 
audit revealed a 100% accuracy rate.  The board members took a few moments to review 
and sign the audit paperwork.  Motion to accept the results of the audit was made by Mr. 
Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
The board members also discussed candidate signs that were still out.  Mr. Ferrell asked 
Mr. Stidham, who is chairman of the County Republican party, to remove Republican 
signs.  Mr. Stidham stated he does not usually touch other people’s signs, but he can get in 
touch with the campaigns and ask them to remove their own signs.  
 
Ms. Salyers then spoke on taking half- days off on Fridays in June.  She stated she sent an 
email to the board members outlining staff’s concerns with that, but the only board 
member who replied was Mr. Krabill.  She stated that even though this is a smaller election 
coming up in August, we still have just as much work to do.   
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

Mr. Ferrell stated he did not agree with that.  Mr. Monaghan stated that the August 
election is uncontested.  Mr. Smith stated that it is contested for Republicans in the eastern 
half of the county.  Mr. Smith also stated that, in the motion made last board meeting to 
take half-days off Friday, it was mentioned that it could be changed if there was work 
mandated by the Secretary of State’s office.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated that one suggestion from Ms. James was to take half-days off Friday, but 
to come in on Saturdays if work needs to be done.  She stated we would not earn comp time 
for that, but instead earn overtime.  Mr. Monaghan and Mr. Ferrell disagreed, saying that 
would cost the taxpayers extra money.  Mr. Monaghan also pointed out that that would not 
be acceptable in a business setting.   
 
Ms. James stated she would do what the board thinks is reasonable.  She also stated that 
when she came in the office Tuesday morning, she received several emails and directives 
from the SOS office about tasks that needed to be completed, which was very 
overwhelming.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated if you can’t take Fridays off he understand that, but he disagrees 
with taking Fridays off and working Saturdays instead.   
 
Eliza Link, Clerk, stated she understands what Mr. Monaghan is saying.  She thinks that 
Ms. James’ point is that if the board is pressuring us to use comp time, taking half days off 
Friday but coming in on Saturday is one way we could do that but still get work done.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated if you can take time off, then do it, but he understands we have 
deadlines to meet.  He stated it comes down to being reasonable.  Mr. Ferrell reminded Mr. 
Krabill that all four board members agreed at the last meeting to have the staff take time 
off.  Mr. Krabill replied that more information from the SOS office and staff has come to 
light since then.   
 
Ms. Salyers again iterated that we have the same amount of work to do.  She also stated 
that she and Ms. James had an event to do today for the August election, which was due 
before we finalized the May election.  Mr. Monaghan stated that we can’t be negative and 
that we have to focus on the positive.  If taking time off doesn’t work, staff can come back 
to the board and let them know.  Ms. Salyers stated that by then it will be too late, because 
we don’t have another board meeting until the end of June.  Mr. Smith replied that the 
board members are accessible.  If we have to come back for a special meeting before the 
end of June, we can do so.   
 
Ms. Salyers then gave an update on money.  She stated the SOS office told her not to send 
back the grant money we received for May, and that we would be likely be receiving grant 
money for August, as well.  Mr. Monaghan suggested that the reason the SOS office is 
allowing boards to use grant money to pay for overtime is that in some counties, BOE 
employees don’t earn comp time.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated that in the salary survey he recently conducted, he discovered that comp 
time is not paid out by most counties, but it is in some.  He also advocated for 
“reasonableness” from the board, the staff, and the Secretary of State’s office.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Ms. Link asked the board members if it would be okay to stagger our time off so that we’re 
not all off on Friday afternoons.  The board members indicated that would be fine.   
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 2:13 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

