The special meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Ferrell at 9:03 a.m. on Friday, July 31, 2020.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Absent (came in late) 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Shomore Deniro, Amy Grubbe 
 
Motion to pay the bills was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion 
carried.  
 
Ms. Salyers, director, started the meeting by giving the board members an update on the 
money that the office has received.  The CARES grant is for $62,754 and can be used for 
anything corona virus related.  It must be spent by December 1, 2020.  Any remaining 
balance must be returned to the Secretary of State’s Office by December 18, 2020.  Ms. 
Salyers stated that she wanted to use the CARES money to pay for the following items: 
hiring extra employees, any overtime we work before early voting starts (per the directive), 
bringing part timers in earlier than normal, paying PEOs more in the form of training, 
buying headsets, $10,000 in additional postage, envelopes, and PPE.  
 
The HAVA grant money is for $40,000.  $25,000 can be used for security, while $15,000 can 
be used for ADA improvements.  The money must be spent by February 2021.  After that, 
any remaining balance must be sent back to the SOS.  Ms. Salyers explained her plans for 
making the office more secure, and for adding a handicap accessible desk.  She stated that 
she was getting help from Gary Weilnau in facilities with getting bids.  She also stated that 
Pete Daniels, county administrator, revealed that some of the commissioners were not 
happy about our plans because the building “wasn’t ours.”  However, Ms. Salyers 
explained that this would not cost Erie County taxpayers directly, because grant money 
would pay for it.  The board members also pointed out that both Homeland Security and 
the SOS office stated that we needed to make the office more secure.   
 
The last bit of money is a $58,351 reimbursement from the primary.  Ms. Salyers was 
expecting a $25,000 reimbursement, but some counties did not fill out their paperwork 
detailing their primary expenses, so money that would have gone to those counties instead 
got distributed to counties that did complete their paperwork.  Mr. Krabill asked for 
confirmation that this was a reimbursement and not a grant.  He also asked for 
confirmation that the money was put in our general fund, and not in the county’s general 
fund.  Ms. Salyers stated that that was her understanding, but that she would check with 
Mr. Daniels to make sure.   
 
Mr. Ferrell then suggest buying brand new phones, but Ms. Salyers stated that she spoke 
with Gary Wobser, who said that the phones were a county wide system and they cannot be 
changed.  Mr. Ferrell stated to check out some vendors about getting new phones, but not 
about getting a brand-new phone system.  
 
Mr. Krabill then asked a question about bids, and what the threshold amount was.  Mr. 
Ferrell responded $50,000.   
 
Mr. Ferrell then commented about the $25,000 that the county transferred from the 
general fund to the BOE office earlier this year for postage.  Mr. Krabill asked if we 
needed to reimburse the county that money.  Ms. Salyers stated no.  Mr. Ferrell asked if we 
can apply for the CARES Act money, and put it in our funds in case we need it, and then at 
the end of the year, we can discuss returning it to the general fund, which you have to do 
anyways.  However, if we need it for something between August 1 and December 31, could 
we get that money back from the SOS office?  Ms. Salyers stated no.   
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

Ms. Link, clerk, then mentioned that Mr. Weilnau was on vacation for two weeks, and she 
did not know if he worked on the bids for security updates before he left.  Mr. Krabill 
stated that one of the concerns is that the work would not get done by November 3, but that 
perhaps one the requirements of the bid be that the work be done by a certain date.  Mr. 
Monaghan agreed that that was a good idea.   
 
Next, Ms. James, Deputy Director, explained the case for using CARES money to increase 
pay for PEOs, janitors, and polling locations.  According to chapter 2 of the Elections 
Officials Manual, poll worker pay cannot be increased unless the board discusses with the 
county commissioners in October of the previous year.  However, Ms. Salyers spoke with 
Jeff Hobday of the Legal Department at the SOS, who stated that instead, we could 
increase the training pay.  Ms. James proposed increasing pay by $15 for those workers 
who do not quit.  With 248 workers, this would mean an additional $3,720.  Ms. Salyers 
stated that we would explain to the workers that this is simply a one time “bonus” being 
paid to them because of the additional responsibilities that the corona virus was placing on 
them.   
 
Ms. James also suggested using CARES money to increase the janitors’ pay for locations 
where we pay the janitors, from $10 a precinct to $20 a precinct.  Again, this would be 
because of the extra responsibilities due to the corona virus.  She also stated that for polling 
locations that do not receive public money, we pay them $20 a precinct, and suggested 
increasing that to $30 a precinct.  Mr. Ferrell stated that it was a good idea, and suggested 
increasing facilities pay to $50 a precinct.  Ms. James stated that currently, we have 17 
polling locations that do not receive public money, and that they collectively house 34 
precincts.  This would mean an additional $1,020 in facilities pay.  Ms. James also counted 
34 precincts with janitors, which would amount to an additional $340 in janitor pay.  
Motion to approve these pay increases and to pay for them using CARES money was made 
by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Ms. Salyers then gave an update on getting an IT company.  She stated that she received a 
quote from New Era and from Netpoint.  The contract for New Era would be $,1350 a 
month, while the contract for Netpoint would be $1,110 a month.  However, with Netpoint, 
there may be a one-time fee of $3,575 to get us up to speed with internet security if we are 
not already there.  Ms. Salyers stated that she had Gery Gross, legal counsel, review both 
contracts, and he said that they were both fine.  Ms. Salyers also stated that New Era will 
not come on site unless we need them to, while Netpoint will come on site once a month, 
with travel already included in the price.  Mr. Krabill stated that he thought Netpoint was 
a better value overall.  Ms. Salyers stated that with New Era you are locked into a year long 
contract, and if you try to get out of it, it is 25 percent of what is left that you pay.  With 
Netpoint, though, you pay monthly.  If you want out, you can leave at the end of the month.   
 
Mr. Smith asked Ms. Salyers had shown the two contracts to Tim Jonovich of the county 
IT department, to see if he had a recommendation.  Ms. Salyers stated she did not, but that 
she could.  She also stated that according to the Secretary of State, August 28 is the 
deadline for the getting an IT company.  Mr. Monaghan commented that Netpoint looked 
like the better deal.  Mr. Ferrell asked which company had the most county contracts.  Ms. 
Salyers stated that she was not sure, but they were probably about equal.  She spoke with 
Huron County, who has Netpoint, and they really like them.  Richland, Morrow, Crawford, 
and Ashland County all have Netpoint, too.  Motion to contract with Netpoint Consulting

Huron County, who has Netpoint, and they really like them.  Richland, Morrow, Crawford, 
and Ashland County all have Netpoint, too.  Motion to contract with Netpoint Consulting 
pending Ms. Salyers’s conversation with Mr. Jonovich was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded 
by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated that she had an update on the OVH.  She contacted the SOS, and they 
agreed that it should remain open as a precinct.  The board members discussed doing 
training classes for the employees and/or residents who would work there and practicing 
adequate social distancing.  Ms. Link stated that she would rather treat it as a nursing 
home and do absentee voting there, but Ms. Salyers stated that the OVH did not want to do 
that.  
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Ms. Salyers then asked the board members how they felt about putting approved board 
meeting minutes on the website.  The board members agreed that that was a good idea, 
because they are public record.  Motion to put the approved meeting minutes on the 
website was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to go into executive session was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 10:07 a.m.  
 
Motion to return to regular session was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  
Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 10:20 a.m.  
 
Mr. Krabill made a motion to suspend furlough immediately for the Board of Elections 
employees, and to revisit it after the election.  He mentioned that the presidential election is 
the busiest election cycle there is.  He also mentioned that we had received feedback from 
the Secretary of State Office, stating that we were the only county BOE being furloughed.  
Based on feedback from staff, he stated that ending furlough was the responsible thing to 
do.  The motion was seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
 
Roll Call:  
 
Mr. Ferrelll- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
 
Motion carried.   
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 10:26 a.m.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
__________________________________________  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

