The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Board Member William Monaghan on Friday, June 24th, 2022 at 9:05 a.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Absent 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Amy Grubbe 
 
Motion to approve the minutes from the May 25th meeting was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to pay the bills was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated that the board received an email from Amanda 
Grandjean at the Secretary of State’s office, congratulating us on our work for the May 3rd, 
2022 Primary.  The email read, in part, “We had nothing but positive feedback to offer 
during our discussions of Erie County Board of Elections.  We want to commend you on an 
excellent performance, even under extremely difficult and constantly changing 
circumstances due to redistricting.” 
 
Ms. James then spoke on equipment allocation for the August 2nd, 2022 Primary.  Staff 
would like to have one DS200 and one Expressvote per polling location, as we’ve had in the 
past.  Motion to approve this allocation of equipment was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded 
by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Lori Salyers, Director, gave an overview of grant money.  She received an email from the 
SOS office on June 13th, which stated we would receive grant money of $196,170 for the 
August Primary.  In addition, we have $71,692.27 remaining from the May grant money.   
 
Mr. Smith inquired if we had chargeback money coming to us.  Ms. Salyers responded it 
was minimal, but yes, and that she would submit the chargeback paperwork to the 
auditor’s office.   
 
Ms. Salyers then reviewed the items we would likely be able to purchase with the grant 
money.  She surmised that grant money could pay for part-time wages, full-time overtime 
wages, poll worker wages, and ballots.  She would also like to use grant money to pay for a 
laminator and rolling ballot bags.   
 
Mr. Smith made a motion to authorize the purchase of a laminator and rolling bags as 
deemed necessary by Ms. Salyers and Ms. James, on the condition that the SOS office gives 
approval to use grant money for these purchases.  Ms. Salyers stated that we would also 
like to purchase a charging tower and battery bases for our poll pads.  Mr. Smith then 
amended his motion to include the purchase of poll pad accessories, again conditional on 
the SOS office approving the use of grant money for these expenses.  Mr. Krabill seconded 
the motion.  Motion carried.   
 
Ms. Salyers also stated that staff would like to move some voting equipment around.  
Currently, some voting equipment is on the first floor, while other equipment is in the 
basement.  Ideally, we’d like to try to get it all on one floor.  Mr. Smith stated he was fine 
with staff moving equipment, so long as it remains secure.   
 
Ms. Salyers then spoke on a suggestion from clerk Eliza Link.  She stated that Ms. Link 
was downstairs working in a room where we store PPE bags, signs, and flags when 
someone from facilities came in to do some work.  Ms. Link noted there was not a camera 
or alarm in that room and was wondering if we could fix that.  Ms. Salyers noted there are 
not any ballots or voting equipment in the room, but still thought it was a good idea to 
secure it.  She also stated it would probably have to come out of our regular budget.  Mr. 
Monaghan asked Ms. Salyers to inquire if we could pay for it out of grant money.   
 
Page 1 of 3

Mr. Krabill asked Ms. Salyers to speak with Gary Weilnau in Facilities to ask that if the 
Facilities department does any work in our space, to please do it during office hours only.  
Mr. Smith then made a motion to authorize the purchase of an alarm and camera 
downstairs.  He stated our goal is to first try to use grant money, and if we can’t do that, we 
would approve up to $500 to complete the project.  Mr. Krabill seconded the motion.  
Motion carried.   
 
Next, Ms. Salyers spoke on precinct changes.  She stated that when she was doing the 
redistricting, she noticed in EVIS that on Mudbrook Road, people on the even side of the 
road were assigned to Huron C, while people on the odd side of the road were assigned to 
Huron Township #1.  However, according to maps from the auditor’s office, all of 
Mudbrook Road should be in Huron C.  Ms. Salyers stated that she spoke with the 
auditor’s office, regional planning, and John Zimmerman of Huron Township about this 
issue, and then asked for the board’s permission to fix the issue in EVIS.  Motion to 
authorize Ms. Salyers to make the necessary changes so that people are voting in the 
correct precinct was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked if Ms. Salyers discussed her findings with Ms. James.  Ms. Salyers 
confirmed that she had.  She also stated that currently, there are no registered voters on 
the odd side of Mudbrook Road that would be affected by this, but that we still want to get 
it correct in EVIS.   
 
Ms. James then asked about rescheduling the July board meeting.  Currently it is 
scheduled for Friday, July 29th, but then we have our pre-election meeting the very next 
week on Monday, August 1st.  The board members took a few minutes to discuss a better 
date and time.  Motion to move the July meeting to Friday, July 15th at 8 a.m. was made by 
Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Next, Ms. James stated we are already starting to receive issues for the November ballot.  
The Huron Public Library would like to put a renewal levy on the ballot.  They submitted 
the paperwork to BOE staff, who submitted the paperwork to the SOS, who approved the 
ballot language.  Motion to approve the levy for the November ballot was made by Mr. 
Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Next on the agenda was “any other matters to come before the board.”  Ms. Grubbe stated 
she had several questions.  First, she asked for a breakdown of street segments in Huron 
Township #1.  Ms. James stated she would email that to her once we fix the issue with 
Mudbrook Road.  Ms. Grubbe then asked for clarification on district splits.  Ms. James 
stated that Huron Township #1 is the only precinct in the county that is split, district wise.  
The western part of Huron Township #1 is in the 89th House and 2nd Senate District, while 
the eastern part of Huron Township #1 is in the 54th House and 13th Senate District.   
 
Ms. Grubbe then asked about a check the Democratic Party wrote for ballots in early June.  
Ms. Salyers stated it was locked in the back room.  Ms. Grubbe asked when it would be 
deposited, and Ms. Salyers stated next week.  Mr. Monaghan stated that we should deposit 
the check today.  Ms. Salyers stated she would complete the paperwork today to take the 
check to the treasurer’s office.   
 
Next Ms. Grubbe commented on facilities’ access to rooms that should be locked for 
security purposes.  She asked if board staff knows who has access.  Ms. Salyers responded, 
“Yes.”  Ms. Grubbe asked, “And they’re able to go in where there are ballots and 
machines?”  Ms. Salyers responded, “No.”  Mr. Krabill stated that no one has access to 
that except for us.  Ms. Grubbe then asked the purpose of the cameras.  Ms. Salyers 
responded it was for security.  Ms. Grubbe then stated she wanted to know how much 
grant money the board received for both the May and August elections, how much was

responded it was for security.  Ms. Grubbe then stated she wanted to know how much 
grant money the board received for both the May and August elections, how much was 
spent, and what it was spent for.   
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Motion to go into executive session to discuss personnel and salary was made by Mr. Smith, 
seconded by Mr. Krabill.  A roll call vote was taken.  
 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes. 
 
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 9:35 a.m.  
 
Motion to leave executive session and return to regular session was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Board resumed regular session at 9:42 a.m.  
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 9:42 a.m.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

