The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, February 23rd, 2024 at 10:00 a.m.   
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member   Present 
                        (D) MaryAnn Groot, Member               Present 
                        (R) Nancy C. McKeen, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Jason Hinners from Erie County Prosecutor’s Office, Amy Grubbe, 
and Stephen Lippert 
 
Ms. Groot motioned to approve the minutes of the January 26th regular meeting.  Ms. 
Crescimano seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Alex Jones, Director, presented the February bills to the board.  He stated that the first 
invoice is to be paid with money that was encumbered in 2023.  We purchased replacement 
totems for our polling locations that are more durable.  With the old totems, we were 
having to replace two or three each election.  In total, we bought 38 new totems.   
 
The board members took a few minutes to review the February bills.  Ms. McKeen 
motioned to pay the bills, with Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
For the Director’s Report, Mr. Jones stated we are preparing for the March election.  
Early voting has already started and we have mailed about 850 ballots.  
 
Ms. Crescimano stated she heard from someone that an individual was sitting by the 
scanner and felt the person was interrupting their personal space.  Ms. Groot replied that 
she was there on Wednesday to assist voters but she wasn’t trying to look at ballots.  Mr. 
Jones stated this is the first time we’ve had an assistant at the scanner in a few elections.  
He also stated we moved the scanner because it was cramped in its old position.   
 
Ms. Groot stated people were having a hard time.  When the ballot prints, it comes out 
curved, and the voters were trying to put the ballot in the scanner with the curve up.  She 
told the voters that if you flip the ballot over, the corners won’t stick.  
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that we used to have someone by the scanner.  Adrienne James, Deputy 
Director, stated that we had someone by the scanner for the General Election in 2020 and 
the Midterm Election in 2022.  
 
Ms. Groot stated it was hard for some people to rip the stub off their ballot when they were 
standing at the scanner.  She would recommend that they tear the stub off when they’re 
sitting, and then go over to the scanner.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if there was anything else.  Mr. Jones stated now that we’re finished with 
the annual campaign finance reporting season, we are referring nine committees to the 
O.E.C. (Ohio Ethics Commission.)  Two committees accepted donations before filing their 
Designation of Treasurer, which is a violation.  One committee filed their report after the 
annual report was due, and the other committees did not file anything in 2023.  Once we 
refer the committees, it is up to the O.E.C. what happens.   
 
Under “New Business” was adoption of a software management policy and physical 
security policy.  Mr. Jones stated this is a re-up.  Last year the Secretary of State’s office 
issued a new security directive.  There is a potential for another security directive this year, 
although it could be pushed back to 2025.  Both policies are policies the board has 
considered already; we are just re-upping them to ensure we are compliant with the 2023 
directive.   
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 4

Ms. Groot stated she has some questions on the office security plan.  Under physical 
security at the board office, it says dual office keys shall only be issued to the Director and 
Deputy.  She asked what that means.   
 
Mr. Jones replied that to enter the office, everyone has their own electronic keycard that 
monitors who is coming in and out.  To enter sensitive areas where we store equipment, 
such as scanners, requires dual keys.  We have a place where we sign those keys out any 
time we access those areas.  A Republican and Democrat need to sign the keys out.  Usually 
it’s Adrienne and Alex, but sometimes it could be Adrienne and the Republican clerk, or 
Alex and the Democratic clerk.  
 
Ms. Groot said her question would be, doesn’t the office hold sensitive information 
everywhere, and shouldn’t that be a requirement to get in the office every day?  Mr. Jones 
stated for the purposes of this, no.  It’s strictly the voting equipment we’re securing by the 
dual access.  Ms. Groot said maybe it should be in place for the office period.  Ms. McKeen 
asked what other offices do.  Mr. Jones replied that any office he’s been to, to access 
general places, you can just use a regular key.  Ms. Groot stated that to her, voter 
information is sensitive, and that’s all in the general office.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that in Cuyahoga County, you need to have a Democrat and a 
Republican to get in the front door.  Ms. McKeen stated that Cuyahoga is a lot different 
than Erie County.  Mr. Ferrell stated as long as we have cameras, we can see who is coming 
and going.  
 
Ms. Groot stated her second question is regarding phones.  What is the phone policy in 
voting areas?  Mr. Jones stated that we post signs in precincts that phones should be put 
away.  Also, the law states that you cannot take a picture of a voted ballot.  Ms. Groot 
stated getting back to the person who thought she was too close, can’t someone come in and 
snap a picture of the voters?  Mr. Ferrell replied that is all public record.  If you’re in 
public, anyone can take your picture and there is nothing you can do about it.  Mr. Ferrell 
also noted that you cannot take a picture of  a ballot.   
 
Ms. Crescimano moved to adopt the software management policy.  Ms. Groot seconded.  
All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Ms. Groot moved to adopt the physical security plan.  Ms. Crescimano seconded.  All 
board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Under “Old Business” was voting equipment allocation for the March 2024 Primary.  Mr. 
Jones stated that a few meetings ago, the board voted to allocate one scanner and one 
expressvote per polling location.  We would like to amend that to have two scanners at the 
Health Department.  Ms. Crescimano moved to accept that allocation of equipment, with 
Ms. Groot seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
For “Any other matters to come before the board,” Ms. Groot requested to move the April 
1st meeting to 9:30 a.m.  The board members agreed that would be fine.  Ms. James stated 
she would update the calendar.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated we need a motion for executive session regarding security.  Ms. Groot 
motioned to go into executive session, pursuant to O.R.C. 121.22(G)(6), to consider details 
relative to security arrangements for a public office that if disclosed could reasonably be 
expected to jeopardize the security of the public office.   
 
No one seconded the motion.  Ms. Crescimano stated the last time we went into executive 
session, she was caught totally off guard.  If she knew what we were going to discuss, or had 
received a courtesy phone call, which is not in violation of the Sunshine laws, then she 
would probably second the motion.   
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 4

Mr. Ferrell stated she can step out in the hall and talk with Jason for a minute.  Mr. 
Hinners stated we would probably need to recess the meeting and rescind the motion.  Ms. 
Groot stated she rescinds her motion for executive session and moved to recess.  Ms. 
Crescimano seconded.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  The board recessed 
at 10:16 a.m.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to reconvene, with Ms. Groot seconding.  A roll call vote was 
taken.   
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Ms. Crescimano- yes 
Ms. Groot- yes 
Ms. McKeen- yes.  
 
The motion carried.  The board reconvened at 10:18 a.m.  
 
Ms. Groot stated she moves to go into executive session, pursuant to O.R.C. 121.22(G)(6), 
to consider details relative to security arrangements for a public office that if disclosed 
could reasonably be expected to jeopardize the security of the public office.  Ms. 
Crescimano seconded the motion.  A roll call vote was taken.   
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Ms. Crescimano- yes 
Ms. Groot- yes 
Ms. McKeen- yes.  
 
The motion carried.  The board went into executive session at 10:19 a.m.  
 
The board reconvened at 10:58 a.m.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if there were any questions before we adjourn.  Ms. Grubbe asked about 
the political signs that were stolen and how it went in front of the grand jury.  She said 
nothing was said about it and asked what we are going to do.  Mr. Ferrell replied nothing 
because the grand jury failed to indict them.  Ms. Grubbe asked the reason.  Mr. Hinners 
replied that he was not privy to it, and he would not be privy to share it if he was.   
 
Ms. Grubbe stated her other question is regarding security.  Can anyone just come in the 
office?  Have there been instances when one staff member has been in the office without 
both a Democrat and Republican present?  Ms. James stated not that she was aware of.  
Ms. Groot mentioned Mr. Jones in the office during Christmas time.  Mr. Jones asked if we 
were talking about the dual access areas.  Ms. Grubbe replied no; just regular entry.   
 
Mr. Jones stated that any time there are live ballots in the office, both parties need to be 
present.  Once we certify the election, then we’ll go back to normal practice, which is that 
we can all access the office at any point.  However, during election time and in the sensitive 
areas, there needs to be both parties present.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked what if it is 11 o clock on a Sunday and the alarm goes off?  Does that go 
to the sheriff?  Mr. Jones replied that there is an alarm that gets tripped.  We set an alarm 
at the end of each day.  If something happens, Mr. Jones is the first person called, and if he 
is not available, then they call Ms. James.  The alarm company also notifies the Sheriff, so 
he will come in and clear the building.  With every alarm that has gone off in the past year, 
it’s either been due to a sensor that has been moved or a zone expander that became 
unplugged.   
 
Ms. Grubbe stated that there should be a different key for the Republicans and Democrats.  
There are other counties our size that require two keys.  Mr. Ferrell asked wouldn’t that 
show up on camera?  Mr. Jones stated yes.  Ms. Grubbe asked who was watching the 
cameras.  Mr. Ferrell stated, “the sheriff.”  Ms. Grubbe said, “But if he or she turns it off, 
then who cares?”  Mr. Jones stated that the cameras run all the time.  
 
Page 3 of 4

Mr. Ferrell commented that everyone has the keypad code.  Ms. Grubbe replied that there 
should be a keycode for the Democrats and a keycode for the Republicans.  Mr. Ferrell 
stated that in all the years we’ve had alarms, he’s not aware of having two different 
keycodes.   
 
Ms. McKeen asked what small counties require two keys and stated we could check with 
them.  Ms. Grubbe stated she thinks Geauga County does, plus a couple others.  Mr. 
Ferrell said we could talk to Accurate about it.  Mr. Jones stated that Accurate does the 
security system, while the county maintains the keycards.  Ms. Grubbe stated that Gary in 
Facilities can provide two cards, one for the Republicans and one for the Democrats.  Mr. 
Ferrell stated he doesn’t think they can do that.   
 
Mr. Jones stated that to be compliant with the state directive, we had to repurpose the 
access points for dual access.  The mandate from the SOS office is that voting equipment 
rooms require bipartisan entry and video cameras.  Mr. Ferrell asked who did that work.  
Mr. Jones said it was the county, but it was through Johnson Controls.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that every time there is an incident, you would need to have two people 
come in the office.  Mr. Jones stated that when there are no live ballots, there’s a very 
diminished opportunity outside of those sensitive areas to do anything nefarious.   
 
Ms. Groot stated that her concern is how often does something happen that you are called 
into the office?  How many times has someone, either a Democrat or a Republican, come 
into the office on their own?  Perhaps even during voting time?   
 
Ms. James replied that during early voting, that does not happen.  There is always one of 
each party.  If it’s the off-season, then there’s usually a couple people in the office.  
However, let’s say during the off-season, the two Republicans are in the office, one 
Democrat is on vacation, and the other Democrat is sick.  Then what do you do?  Close the 
office?  Ms. James said that seems silly to her.   
 
Mr. Jones stated that for one staff member, it makes sense with her schedule to get here a 
little earlier, so she is usually the first one here.  Other times during the off-season, Mr. 
Jones is in the office later than everyone else.  It’s rare that only one person is in the office 
in any given day.   
 
Mr. Lippert asked if we could start the meetings with the Pledge of Allegiance and a 
prayer.  Mr. Ferrell replied that he doesn’t do prayers and that we’ve never done it before.  
He also asked Ms. McKeen if we ever did the Pledge of Allegiance when she was on the 
County Commission.  Ms. McKeen did not recall.   
 
Ms. Groot motioned to adjourn, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board members 
voted yes; motion carried.  The board adjourned at 11:10 a.m.  
 
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 4

