The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, February 11th, 2022 at 9:00 a.m.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Rachel Mullen from SOS Office, Caleb Stidham, and Amy Grubbe 
 
Motion to approve the minutes from the January 28th meeting was made by Mr. 
Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Lori Salyers, Director, stated that there were two bills to pay from the month of February, 
plus two bills that came in late last year.  She stated that for the bills that were from last 
year, the board members would need to sign Then and Now Certificates.  Motion to pay the 
bills was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  Ms. Salyers 
then stated that she started compiling ledgers for our accounts and placed them in the 
board members’ folders.  She stated that right now the balances are negative because the 
new budget does not commence until sometime in March.  Once the new budget 
commences, then the balances will be positive.   
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, stated that for the upcoming primary, the board needs 
to approve allocation of voting equipment.  Staff would like to have one DS200 and one 
Expressvote per polling location.  Motion to accept this allocation of equipment was made 
by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated he had a quick question.  He stated he’s hearing more and more from 
Columbus that there may be two primaries because of the continued delays with the maps.  
He asked if there was anything we should be doing about that, or if we should just take it as 
it comes.   
 
Ms. Salyers suggested just taking it as it comes.  She stated that we received a letter from 
the Ohio Association of Election Officials outlining reasons against two primaries.  The 
OAEO asked us to forward the letters to our representatives, and Ms. Salyers did so.  Ms. 
Salyers also stated she hoped there would not be two primaries, because that would be very 
expensive.  Mr. Smith commented that if there are two primaries, the legislatures should 
provide funding for that.  Mr. Monaghan asked Ms. Mullen what the SOS office thought.  
Ms. Mullen stated that the SOS office is not advocating for two primaries, but that it was 
up to the legislatures.   
 
Next, Ms. James stated that the board members have spreadsheets in their folders of 
candidates to approve.  The left column contains the names of candidates they have already 
approved, while the right column contains candidates the board has not yet approved.  Ms. 
James stated that of all the candidates who needed signatures, they all had more than 
enough valid signatures, and they filled everything out correctly.  Ms. James also stated 
that Mr. Monaghan would need to abstain on voting on Brian Baxter’s petitions.     
 
Ms. Mullen stated that, according to Directive 2022-03 from the SOS, boards cannot yet 
certify Ohio house races.  Mr. Smith then made a motion to certify all the candidates in the 
right column except for James R. Obergefell for Ohio House, Douglas James Swearingen 
Jr. for Ohio House, and Brian Baxter for Coroner.  Mr. Krabill seconded the motion.  A 
roll call vote was taken.   
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
 
Motion carried.  The candidates approved are as follows:  
 
Page 1 of 3

• Steve Shoffner, Republican, County Commissioner, FTC 1/1/2023 
• Mark A. Bertsch, Democrat, County Central Committee, Hur B 
• Christopher J. Cammalleri, Democrat, County Central Committee, Hur C 
• Megan Nicole Cammalleri, Democrat, County Central Committee, San D 
• Chasity L. Page, Democrat, County Central Committee, San K 
• Lynnette A. Kromer, Democrat, County Central Committee, Cast Vill 
• Harrison Mathew Tone, Democrat, County Central Committee, Hur Twp #3 
• Daniel W. McLaughlin, Democrat, County Central Committee, Per Twp #1 
•  Deborah S. McGuire, Democrat, County Central Committee, Per Twp #4 
• Kathay Michelle Dickey, Republican, County Central Committee, Ver 3-B 
• Deena Brace, Republican, County Central Committee, BV Vill 
• Timothy D. Coleman, Republican, County Central Committee, Per Twp #9 
 
Motion to approve Brian Baxter’s petitions for coroner was made by Mr. Smith, seconded 
by Mr. Krabill.  A roll call vote was taken.  
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- abstain 
 
Motion carried.   
 
Motion to approve a name change for Douglas Swearingen Jr., candidate for Republican 
Central Committee, Hur Twp #2, was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  A 
roll call vote was taken.   
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill- yes 
 
Motion carried.  Mr. Swearingen’s name will appear on the ballot as D.J. Swearingen.  
 
Mr. Smith stated that, following the directive, we will not certify James R. Obergefell or 
Douglas James Swearingen Jr. as candidates for Ohio house at this time.  However, both 
candidates have enough valid signatures, so when we are allowed to certify, it will just be a 
formality.  
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if there was anything else.  Mr. Monaghan stated he asked Ms. James to 
print job descriptions for the clerks, deputy director, and director, and place them in 
everyone’s folders.  Mr. Monaghan asked the other board members to review those 
descriptions so that we can talk about them in executive session next meeting.  Mr. Smith 
reminded the board members that Ms. Salyers stated that next meeting, we would also 
need to go into executive session regarding security measures.   
 
Mr. Smith then asked if we could change the date of the March meeting.  After some 
discussion, the board members decided to move the next meeting to Friday, March 18th at 
1:30 p.m.  Ms. Mullen reminded the board members that they may have to meet earlier 
than that to certify house candidates, depending on when a new directive is released.   
 
Ms. Grubbe then stated she had a couple questions regarding the report that Mr. Krabill 
wrote.  She asked, “Was this report done with the knowledge of the other board 
members?”  Mr. Krabill replied, “I think so.  I don’t remember specifically.”  Mr. Smith 
stated that it’s not an official report from the board.  Ms. Grubbe stated, “It doesn’t state 
that explicitly.”  Mr. Smith replied that we stated it during the last board meeting on the 
record.  Ms. Grubbe stated that it doesn’t say that on the report.   
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Ms. Grubbe then asked if Mr. Krabill sent the report to the SOS office.  Mr. Krabill stated 
he had.  Ms. Grubbe asked what their response was.  Mr. Krabill stated there was nothing 
in writing, just that the SOS office thought the report was well done.  Ms. Grubbe stated if 
the SOS office does provide a response in writing, she would like to see it.   
 
Next, Ms. Grubbe stated the report continues “unfounded conspiracies.”  She quoted Mr. 
Krabill’s report where he wrote, “Believe me, I tried.”  She then asked him what he was 
trying to find.   
 
Mr. Krabill replied that he doesn’t think he’s on trial for anything.  He then stated that 
when constituents come up to him with questions and those questions persist, he feels he 
has an obligation to investigate them.  He could not find a manner or means by which any 
votes could be changed, and that’s what the report says.  He also stated that the report is 
just regarding Erie County.  He’s not making any statements about any other county or 
state.  He just looked at the way we conduct our business here in Erie County, and it’s 
solid.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked if this report was brought up in a board meeting, and stated he 
wasn’t sure why Mr. Krabill sent the report to the SOS.  Mr. Krabill stated that he wrote 
the report personally, and he personally was interested in the SOS office’s response.   
 
Mr. Ferrell asked if there was anything further.  Mr. Krabill asked if the board members 
or anyone else would be concerned about him renewing the questionnaire that he sent out a 
couple years ago regarding board practices and pay levels.  The board members agreed 
that that would be fine.   
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 9:21 a.m.  
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

