The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Board Member William Monaghan on Friday, December 17th, 2021 at 9:00 a.m.  
 
Roll Call:      (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present via phone (did not    
make any motions, second any motions, or vote on any motions) 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member               Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Rachel Mullen from SOS office (came late) and Amy Grubbe 
 
Motion to approve the minutes from the November 1 and 2, November 15, November 19, 
and November 29 and December 1 board meetings was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by 
Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
Next on the agenda was paying the bills.  Lori Salyers, Director, stated that this would be 
the last of the bills for the year.  She stated that there were two Then and Now Certificates: 
one for $30,000 worth of postage, and one for $5,000 for Knowink’s election support.  The 
rest of the bills consisted of last-minute supply orders and conference fees for the OAEO 
winter conference.   
 
Ms. Salyers then stated that she had appropriated all our money where she thought it 
should go until the end of the year.  However, she recently received an email from the 
commissioners’ office that we were $800 short on our medical account.  Apparently, this 
happened in all county offices.  The email from the commissioners stated that money was 
taken out of our supplies account to cover the $800 medical shortage.  Ms. Salyers felt that 
for them to do that without asking us was rather presumptuous.   
 
Mr. Krabill asked if this medical issue was going to affect our budget.  Ms. Salyers stated 
she was not sure.  Mr. Krabill stated that if our medical costs are going to be higher, then 
our budget needs to reflect that going forward.  Ms. Salyers replied that when figuring the 
2022 budget, she increased the medical line-item account by 10% as the finance 
department instructed her to do.  Mr. Monaghan stated that Ms. Salyers should call 
upstairs to the commissioners for clarification. 
 
Motion to pay the bills as presented was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  
Motion carried.   
 
Next on the agenda was reviewing petitions for the May 2022 Election.  Adrienne James, 
Deputy Director, stated that Judge Roger Binette turned in his petitions for Judge of Court 
of Common Pleas, General Division.  His petitions were filled out correctly, and he had 
more than enough valid signatures.  In addition, Ms. Salyers turned in her paperwork to 
run for the Republican Central Committee in Margaretta Township #4.  The board 
members took a few moments to review the petitions.  Motion to certify the petitions was 
made by Mr. Krabill, seconded my Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.   
 
After certifying petitions, it was time for board members to discuss the 2022 budget.  Ms. 
Salyers stated that she placed all the relevant paperwork in the board members’ folders.  
There is an explanation for each line item that says exactly why we are asking for what we 
are asking.  Ms. Salyers also included a spreadsheet that consisted of what we requested in 
2018 and what we spent in 2018, and those same statistics for 2020 and 2021.  Ms. Salyers 
then stated that the full-time salary line-item includes payout for comp time and step 
raises.  Mr. Monaghan stated we would talk about that in executive session.  Mr. 
Monaghan also asked if this budget has been turned into the commissioners yet.  Ms. 
Salyers responded no; she cannot turn it in until the board approves it.   
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

Mr. Krabill then gave his thoughts.  He stated that the explanation page would be 
important for Hank and the commissioners.  He pointed out that software maintenance and 
support is much higher than it used to be, but we don’t really have alternatives.  He stated 
those numbers are not guesstimates; they are numbers we have been quoted.  He also 
stated that the amount of money we requested for contract services is higher, but again 
referenced the explanation section as to why that was so.   
 
Next, Mr. Krabill stated that there are some categories that we kept the same as last year, 
because the numbers are the same.  He also commented on the $1,000 we requested for 
“Other Materials and Supplies.”  He stated it was an “odd duck line item,” and we didn’t 
really know its purpose.  Mr. Monaghan replied that it’s a slush fund.  There’s going to be 
times when you’ll need something that you haven’t budgeted for, and that’s what that 
account is for.  Ms. Salyers responded that we can always move money from another 
account.   
 
Mr. Krabill stated that we need to show Hank and the commissioners that we are 
attempting to keep our budget under control.  Mr. Monaghan stated that we need to make 
sure we have enough money in our accounts to run a functional election.  Ms. Salyers 
remarked that she sent the finance department a “faux budget” back in June, but since 
then, she has upped her requests.  Some accounts, though, she left the same.  For example, 
Repairs and Maintenance was about $62,000 in 2021, and she requested the same amount 
for 2022.   
 
Mr. Smith then stated he had a question.  The spreadsheet Ms. Salyers provided stated that 
in 2020, we spent about $646,000.  Does this include grant money that we received from the 
SOS office?  Ms. Salyers stated no.  Mr. Smith stated he would like to know how much 
grant money we received in 2020.  He thinks that information should be included in the 
budget paperwork we present to the commissioners. 
 
Mr. Krabill then made a comment on the $646,000 spent in 2020 versus the $746,000 
requested for 2022.  He stated that jump has nothing to do with grants; it has to do with the 
increase in costs for software maintenance and support and in contract services.  Mr. Smith 
commented that had it not been for the grant money we received in 2020, the $646,000 
would be higher.  Mr. Krabill agreed.  He also stated to keep in mind that the reason we got 
so many grants in 2020 was because of the pandemic.  Ms. Salyers stated she would 
investigate how much grant money we received in 2020, and then include that in the 
narrative for the commissioners.   
 
Next, Mr. Monaghan asked for clarification on the contract services line item.  Ms. Salyers 
explained she previously thought contract services was for anyone with whom you have a 
contract.  However, it’s actually for poll workers, janitors, and polling locations on Election 
Day.  Mr. Monaghan asked if Ms. Salyers had talked with surrounding counties regarding 
poll worker pay.  Ms. Salyers stated she had not, but reminded Mr. Monaghan of the pay 
survey Mr. Krabill previously conducted.  Mr. Krabill stated that we have increased our 
pay for poll workers and janitors.  He also stated that when he has some free time, he 
would like to refresh his survey.   
 
Next on the agenda was “any other matters to come before the board.”  Ms. Salyers stated 
earlier in the year, we talked about our issues with our time stamp machine.  We don’t 
need to buy one now, but we’ll need to buy one before the primary, and it will be about 
$700.  Mr. Monaghan asked if that was in the budget.  Ms. Salyers stated yes.   
 
Next, Ms. James stated that we received a nice email from Mandi Grandjean at the SOS 
office.  The SOS office did an after-action review of the 2021 General Election, and they 
stated, “We had nothing but positive feedback to offer during our discussions of the Erie 
County Board of Elections.”  
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Mr. Monaghan then asked about an email he received saying that “we hadn’t done 
something yet.”  Ms. Salyers explained that it was a class on how not to open phishing 
emails.  She didn’t open it because she thought it was a phishing email; however, it was 
legit.  She will send the board members the link to take the course.  
 
The next item on the agenda was “Executive Session: Re: Compensation of Full-Time 
Staff.”  Motion to go into executive session for personnel matters was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Smith.  A roll call vote was taken.   
 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Mr. Smith- yes 
Mr. Krabill -yes.  
 
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 9:34 a.m.  
 
Motion to exit executive session and come into regular session was made by Mr. Krabill, 
seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 10:17 a.m.  
 
Mr. Smith made a motion to approve the budget and send it to the commissioners for their 
approval, with the caveat that we also inform the commissioners how much grant money 
we received in 2020.  Mr. Krabill stated he would second the motion.  He also stated that, as 
a point of order, there is a salary structure that is assumed within the budget that would 
need to be adopted by the board as policy.  Mr. Krabill asked Mr. Smith, “Are you also as 
part of your motion asking for the adoption of that?”  Mr. Smith stated he was not, because 
he thinks we need to work on that next year.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that if we’re continuing to work on the salary structure, he will go 
ahead and vote.  He also stated that we need to take a hard look at our salary structure for 
our clerks.  He stated we cannot have a discrepancy in our clerks’ salary like we do now.  
Mr. Monaghan then asked who was in favor of Mr. Smith’s motion.  All said aye; motion 
carried.   
 
Ms. Salyers stated she had one last question.  Would the board agree to pay for both her 
and Ms. James to go down to the OAEO conference the night before?  The conference 
starts at 10 a.m. and if they don’t go down the night before, they would have to leave early 
to beat rush hour traffic.  Mr. Krabill stated he thinks that would be fine.  He doesn’t 
believe we have to vote on it, because conference expenses come out of that line item on the 
budget.   
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 10:21 a.m.   
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

