The regular monthly meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Thomas Ferrell on Friday, June 23rd, 2023 at 11:30 a.m.      
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman   Present  
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Lisa M. Crescimano, Member               Present 
                        (R) Nancy C. McKeen, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Rachel Ruffer from Ohio Secretary of State’s Office and MaryAnn 
Groot 
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the minutes from May 1st.  Ms. McKeen seconded the 
motion.  Mr. Ferrell asked for a roll call vote.   
 
Mr. Ferrell- no 
Mr. Monaghan- no 
Ms. Crescimano- yes 
Ms. McKeen- yes.  
 
The motion did not carry.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the minutes from May 17th, with Ms. McKeen 
seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  
 
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the minutes from June 1st, with Mr. Monaghan 
seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.   
 
Alex Jones, Director, gave a financial report.  He stated we are tracking well as far as the 
budget goes, and we should have money to return to the county at the end of the year.  He 
passed around the June bills for the board to review, which total $8,763.17.   
 
Ms. Crescimano asked if the Pitney Bowes bill was a yearly charge.  Mr. Jones stated it is a 
quarterly charge from last year.  Ms. Crescimano stated it was awfully high for a postage 
meter.  Mr. Jones stated he can review other options.  Mr. Ferrell commented on the bill 
from Wilson Printing and asked if we could use Loris Printing, since they are local.  Mr. 
Jones stated that for this particular job we used Wilson because they have done that job 
before, but we have used Loris in the past.  Mr. Jones also stated there are two Then and 
Now Certificates for the board to approve.  The first is for election support from ES&S, 
and is over $5,000.  The second is for the Pitney Bowes quarterly charge from last year.  
Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the June bills and the two Then and Now 
Certificates.  Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  All board members voted yes; motion 
carried.   
 
Mr. Jones asked the board members if everyone had received the conference agenda for 
next week.  If not, we can get them a copy.  He also asked the board members to complete 
the conference reimbursement estimation forms.  The board members took a few minutes 
to do so.   
 
Adrienne James, Deputy Director, reviewed candidate petitions filed.  She stated there are 
nine candidates who submitted petitions to appear on the November 2023 ballot.  All 
candidates completed their paperwork correctly and received more than enough valid 
signatures.  Ms. Crescimano asked if more than one person reviews the signatures.  Ms. 
James stated that normally it is just one person; however, if someone determines that a 
signature does not match and the candidate is close to not having enough valid signatures, 
then someone of the opposite party reviews the signatures.  The board members took a few 
moments to review the petitions.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to approve the nine 
candidates’ petitions, with Mr. Monaghan seconding.  Ms. James took a roll call vote.  
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 4

Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Ms. Crescimano- yes 
Ms. McKeen- yes 
 
The motion carried.  The nine candidates approved are as follows:  
• Dave Waddington, Sandusky City Commission 
• Ronald E. Ehrbar, Kelleys Island Mayor 
• Lisa Klonaris, Kelleys Island Clerk-Treasurer 
• Gary M. Finger, Kelleys Island Council 
• Matthew S. Dewey, Huron Township Fiscal Officer 
• Michael G. Parker, Oxford Township Trustee 
• Kenneth M. Baughman, Vermilion Township Trustee 
• Tyler Ravis, Vermilion Township Trustee, Unexpired Term 
• Thomas C. Patterson, Sandusky Board of Education 
 
Ms. James stated the board would need to vote on Jeffrey L. Ferrell’s petitions 
individually, since Mr. Ferrell would need to abstain.  Jeffrey is running for Perkins 
Township trustee.  He has filled out his paperwork correctly and has more than enough 
valid signatures.  Ms. Crescimano motioned to accept Jeffrey’s petitions, with Mr. 
Monaghan seconding.  Ms. James took a roll call vote.  
 
Mr. Ferrell- abstain 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Ms. Crescimano- yes 
Ms. McKeen- yes 
 
The motion carried.   
 
Ms. James stated that the Erie County General Health District submitted paperwork to 
place a renewal levy on the ballot for November 2023.  She and Mr. Jones reviewed the 
paperwork, then submitted it to the Secretary of State’s office.  Ms. Crescimano motioned 
to approve the issue filed by the Erie County General Health District, with Mr. Monaghan 
seconding.  Ms. James took a roll call vote.  
 
Mr. Ferrell- yes 
Mr. Monaghan- yes 
Ms. Crescimano- yes 
Ms. McKeen- yes 
 
The motion carried.  
 
Mr. Jones spoke regarding the chargebacks for the May Special/Primary election.  He 
stated that in accordance with Revised Code 3501.17, we have determined the full cost of 
the election and broken it down by political subdivision.  After the board approves the 
chargebacks, we will submit the paperwork to the Auditor’s Office for them to withhold 
the costs from the subdivisions’ settlements.  We will also submit the paperwork to the 
Finance Department to have those funds placed in the line items they came from.  The 
board members took a few moments to review the chargeback paperwork.  Ms. 
Crescimano motioned to certify the charges for the May Special/Primary election, with Mr. 
Monaghan seconding.  All board members voted yes; motion carried.  Mr. Jones also asked 
the board members to sign the expense estimation forms they completed for Summer 
Conference.   
 
The next item on the agenda was “any other matters to come before the board.”  Mr. 
Monaghan asked Mr. Jones who he reports to.  Mr. Jones replied, “This body.”  Mr. 
Monaghan asked, “Who on this body do you report to?”  Mr. Jones again stated, “This 
body.”   
 
 
 
Page 2 of 4

Mr. Monaghan stated that Mr. Jones is the Republican executive director, and he would 
assume he would report to Tom Ferrell if he’s going to be out for a few hours.  Mr. 
Monaghan stated that when he was in business, he reported to the executive vice president 
if he was going to be gone.  Mr. Monaghan stated to eliminate a lot of the problems we’ve 
had, Mr. Jones should report to somebody on this board, and then that person can report 
to the rest of the board. 
 
Mr. Monaghan then commented that Mr. Jones left this office to go work for the landbank.  
Ms. McKeen stated we went through that, and she is not going through it again.  Mr. 
Monaghan stated we are paying his salary, not the landbank.  Ms. McKeen stated that Mr. 
Jones is not 12 years old, and it’s not like he was sent to the principal’s office.  Mr. 
Monaghan stated that Mr. Jones needs to report to someone.  He can’t go off on his own. 
 
Ms. Crescimano stated it’s micromanaging, as far as she’s concerned.  Mr. Monaghan 
replied that it is not micromanaging.  The boss is the president of this board.  Ms. 
Crescimano stated that we’re all Mr. Jones’ boss.  Mr. Monaghan stated that you report to 
the president of the board.  That’s the way it’s always been.       
 
Ms. James stated that when the previous director was here, the four employees had a group 
chat.  If one of us couldn’t come to work or would be late, we would either talk to each 
other in the office or we would text the group chat.  Ms. James stated that worked out very 
well for us.   
 
Ms. Crescimano stated she has no problem with that.  She thinks we should know where 
each other is, especially Mr. Jones.  To her, he is on call 24/7.  If he leaves the office, he 
should let Ms. James know because she’s the deputy.  Ms. James stated we all let each other 
know.   
 
Ms. Crescimano stated that when she used to work for a law firm, she didn’t tell everyone 
every time she left the office.  Mr. Monaghan asked about when Ms. Crescimano worked 
for Perkins Schools and went to Bellevue.  Ms. Crescimano replied that the superintendent 
would know she was going to Bellevue.  She did not call the five school board members.  
Mr. Monaghan stated that Mr. Ferrell is the head of the board.  You have a Republican 
who is the executive director, and a Democrat who is the president of the board, and there 
was no communication.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that two directors ago, the director would call him if she was going to be 
out of the office on non-Board-of-Elections business.  He also stated that the previous 
director would call him if the balance was going to be off in the office, party-wise.  Mr. 
Ferrell thinks that is the type of communication Mr. Monaghan is looking for.   
 
Ms. Crescimano asked Mr. Ferrell if Mr. Jones goes to Rotary on Thursdays, does he need 
to know?  Mr. Ferrell replied that if Mr. Jones claims it on his timesheet, then yes.  Ms. 
Crescimano stated that Mr. Jones should have a public presence in the community.  Mr. 
Ferrell stated, “That’s your opinion.”  Ms. Crescimano stated we all have our opinions.  
She stated that sometimes Mr. Jones works until 5 or 6, and he came in on Sunday when 
the alarm went off.   
 
Mr. Monaghan stated that when we took the director salary from $55,000/year to 
$70,000/year, it was based on him working 350 hours of overtime a year.  Ms. Ruffer stated 
that some county agencies gave raises because of the cost-of-living increase over the past 
couple of years.  Mr. Monaghan replied that the cost-of-living didn’t go up $15,000 in one 
year.  Mr. Ferrell stated that when we get back from conference, he thinks we should call a 
meeting to work out some work policies that suit everyone.   
 
Ms. Groot asked for clarification on some figures she requested at a previous meeting 
regarding payroll.  She would like the numbers separated by director pay versus clerk pay. 
She would like to know 2022 requested, received, and used, and 2023 requested and

regarding payroll.  She would like the numbers separated by director pay versus clerk pay. 
She would like to know 2022 requested, received, and used, and 2023 requested and 
received.   
 
Page 3 of 4

Ms. Groot also noted that she asked at a previous meeting if employees were paid based on 
a 35- or 40-hour week.  She said she was told 40 hours because the employees work through 
lunch.  Ms. Groot asked if BOE employees accumulate vacation and sick time based on 40 
hours or 35 hours.  She also asked since March 1st, how many times have all four employees 
worked through lunch?  And on any of those days, were there part-time employees in the 
office?   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated we would probably have to pull the time sheets.  He also asked if Mr. 
Jones or Ms. James would like to explain publicly how we try to work within the county 
policy.   
 
Mr. Jones stated as it stands right now, the whole office works a 40-hour week.  There is a 
half hour unpaid lunch.  Everyone either comes in early or stays late to make that up, or 
they use a leave balance to get to 40 hours.  For example, one clerk usually comes in 15 
minutes early and leaves 15 minutes late.  Another clerk usually leaves 30 minutes late.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated a lot of offices do it that way.  Ms. Crescimano stated that the 
Treasurer’s office went to a 40-hour week.  Mr. Ferrell stated that they started counting 
the time it takes to get the computers on and cash drawers ready, because some customers 
come in right at 8.  
 
Mr. Ferrell asked Mr. Jones about office security when the alarm went off.  Mr. Jones 
stated that the alarm company called the previous director, who called Ms. James, who 
called Mr. Jones.  Mr. Jones then notified the board members.   
 
Mr. Monaghan made a motion to adjourn, with Ms. Crescimano seconding.  All board 
members voted yes; motion carried.  Board adjourned at 12:12 p.m.  
 
 
Alexander W. Jones, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 4

