The regular meeting of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to order by 
Chairman Ferrell at 9:00 a.m. on Thursday, September 24, 2020.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Gery Gross and Amy Grubbe 
 
Motion to approve the minutes from the previous meeting was made by Mr. Monaghan, 
seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Motion to pay the bills was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion 
carried.  
 
Ms. James, Deputy Director, asked if there was a motion to allocate voting equipment for 
the November election.  She stated that there needed to be one DS200 scanner and one 
Expressvote per voting location, but that the one exception would be the County Services 
Center.  The Ohio Veterans’ Home is on lockdown and not able to be used as a polling 
location.  The solution is that the majority of the residents there are going to vote absentee, 
but for the residents in independent living who want to vote in person on Election Day, they 
will be coming to the County Services Center to vote.  Therefore, the Service Center will 
actually have two DS200s and two Expressvotes, but for all other voting locations in the 
county, the allocation will be one each.  Motion to approve this allocation of equipment was 
made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
 
Ms. Salyers, Director, gave some updates on other matters in the office.  She stated that the 
office contracted with the company Suntrol out of Cleveland, which was the least 
expensive, to put film on the office and conference room windows.  They are coming 
September 29 to install film and coming back a couple days later to caulk it.  She also 
stated that the office bought new chairs and that we were able to get them at a discount 
because we bought in bulk.  She stated that for twelve new chairs and two stools, it cost a 
little over $5,000.  They should arrive shortly after early voting starts.  
 
Ms. Salyers then stated that the office had hired all of our precinct election officials, and 
that we are now working on getting backups.  She thanked the board for allowing the office 
to hire unaffiliated workers this election and stated that she had already hired several.  She 
also stated that the unaffiliated people were excited and willing to serve.  Mr. Krabill 
congratulated the staff on having hired all their poll workers.  He stated that in an email 
yesterday from the Secretary’s office, it linked to a database of all the counties’ poll worker 
needs, and Erie County was one of only five or six counties in the state that had zero 
openings for workers.   
 
Ms. Link, Clerk, stated that she was training nursing home employees to help the residents 
vote, and that she hoped to do the voting the week of October 12.  Per the Secretary of 
State, a bipartisan team from the office will need to deliver the ballots to the nursing home, 
and then later pick them up when the residents are finished voting.  Mr. Krabill stated that 
he would be willing to help with that.  Mr. Monaghan asked for the office to call him when 
they were ready to do nursing home voting, and he could possibly help out, too.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

Mr. Ferrell then asked if there were any questions from guests, and Ms. Grubbe stated that 
she had several.  She asked if anyone had followed up with the Sandusky Library about the 
incorrect information they printed in their newsletter regarding the dropbox.  Ms. Salyers 
stated that she had not.  Ms. Grubbe asked if there were plans to, and Ms. Salyers stated 
no.  She stated that we were not responsible for what the library prints, but that we were 
putting the correct information in the newspaper and our website.  Ms. Grubbe stated that 
the Erie County BOE website had incorrect information regarding the dropbox, but that it 
was corrected immediately when it was pointed out.  Ms. Salyers stated that it was not 
incorrect on the website because November 13 was the date the Secretary’s office told us 
for how long the dropbox had to be accessible 24/7.  Mr. Krabill stated that he would 
contact the library, but to keep in mind that we cannot ask another entity to spend their 
own money to send out a correction to everyone on their mailing list.  Ms. Grubbe stated 
that’s not what she’s asking; she just wants to make sure someone follows up with the 
library to see what they are doing.   
 
Ms. Grubbe then asked for a list of poll workers that included their names, addresses, 
work locations, positions, and party affiliations.  She also stated that several people had 
been in contact with her, saying that they signed up online to be poll workers but had not 
heard anything.  Ms. Link responded that this election we had been inundated with 
volunteers, and that those people are just in a “pool” right now to be used if we get any 
cancellations.  Just because they have not been called yet does not mean that they won’t be 
called later.  Ms. Grubbe then asked if the Democrats and Republicans from that list had 
been contacted before the unaffiliated people.  Ms. Link responded that again, none of 
those people had been contacted yet, but that they might be.  Ms. Grubbe then asked if the 
office was back to hiring unaffiliated people before hiring Democrats and Republicans.  
Ms. Link responded that it was not in the minutes that the office had to use D’s and R’s 
first before using unaffiliated people.  Mr. Ferrell responded that yes, it was.  Mr. Krabill 
stated that was not what he recalled.  Ms. James explained that she had had a phone 
conversation with Mr. Ferrell about hiring PEOs.  In the conversation, she stated that she 
would not move backwards and fire the unaffiliated people she did hire, because that 
would be awkward, but that moving forward, she would focus on just hiring party 
affiliated people.   
 
Ms. Grubbe then asked about the consolidation of polling locations and why that 
happened.  Ms. James stated that it happened because either the locations wouldn’t let us 
in, or they were putting so many restrictions on us that it wasn’t feasible for us to be there.  
Ms. Grubbe then asked how many were consolidated.  Ms. James explained that they 
weren’t really consolidated; they were just moved to different locations.  The only ones that 
were consolidated were Perkins Township 4 and 5 because the Ohio Veterans’ Home is on 
lockdown.  
 
Ms. Grubbe then brought up the issue of the dropbox.  She had been in contact with the 
Voter Protection Team down in Columbus, who was in contact with Amanda Grandjean 
from the Secretary of State’s Office.  According to Ms. Grubbe, Erie County is the only 
county that interpreted the word “outside” in the dropbox directive to simply mean outside 
the office, and not outdoors.  Ms. Grubbe stated it was unfortunate that the dropbox is all 
the way up the ramp and not more accessible as a drive-up box.  She stated that at this 
point, though, “it is what it is” because there doesn’t seem to be any cooperation from the 
commissioners.  Mr. Ferrell stated I would say that’s accurate.  
 
Mr. Monaghan asked where we stand on the construction for the front part of the office to

commissioners.  Mr. Ferrell stated I would say that’s accurate.  
 
Mr. Monaghan asked where we stand on the construction for the front part of the office to 
make it more secure.  Mr. Krabill explained that the county understood there was a 
deadline to get it done and that they were just waiting on the glass.  Mr. Monaghan then 
brought up Janotta and Herner.  Mr. Krabill explained that Janotta and Herner was no 
longer part of the project.  Ms. Salyers stated that workers from the county were in the 
office last week to do measuring, and that they were trying to get the work done before 
October 6 so that there are no disruptions to early voting.   
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Mr. Monaghan asked what was going on with polling locations in Vermilion.  Ms. Salyers 
responded that she contacted Ritter Public Library, and they stated they could not 
accommodate the five precincts for Vermilion City; they could only accommodate three.  
Therefore, two Vermilion precincts, Vermilion 3-A and Vermilion 3-B, were moved to 
Vermilion High School.  Ms. Salyers also stated that the two precincts at Firelands College, 
Huron Township 1 and Huron Township 2, were moved to the Huron Township Building, 
and that the two precincts at the Huron United Methodist Church, Huron A and Huron C, 
were moved to Mesenburg Plaza Place.  Ms. James stated that two Sandusky precincts, 
Sandusky H and Sandusky I, were moved from Zion Lutheran Church to the Sandusky 
Cultural Center.   
 
Mr. Monaghan asked if both commissioner candidates were on the ballot, and Ms. Salyers 
stated yes.  Mr. Monaghan then asked when it was said that we wanted to keep a 
commissioner off the ballot.  Ms. Salyers responded that she did not say that.  Mr. Ferrell 
stated that it was a dead issue.   
 
Mr. Krabill gave an update on the Commons of Providence.  The precinct Sandusky P used 
to be located there, but now it has been moved to the City Service Complex off West 
Monroe Street.  Ms. Salyers also stated that the precinct Sandusky G, which used to be at 
the Senior Center, is now at the Sandusky Municipal Building.  The reason for these two 
moves is that the Secretary’s office wants us out of all locations that house the elderly.   
 
Mr. Monaghan then reiterated that the office should call Molly Carver at the Sandusky 
Library to talk about the incorrect information that was in the library newsletter.  Ms. 
Salyers stated that she would do that.   
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that we needed a motion to go into executive session to discuss personnel 
matters.  Motion to go into executive session was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 9:24 a.m.   
 
Motion to go back into regular session was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.  Board went back into regular session at 9:59 a.m.  
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 10:00 a.m.   
 
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
____________________________ 
  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

