The regular monthly meeting/audit of the Erie County Board of Elections was called to 
order by Chairman Ferrell at 9:00 a.m. on Tuesday, June 2, 2020.  
 
Roll Call:      (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Present 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Present 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Present 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Present 
 
Guests in attendance: Gery Gross, Amy Grubbe  
 
Motion to go into executive session was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.  Board went into executive session at 9:01 a.m.  
 
Motion to go back into regular session was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 9:44 a.m.   
 
Mr. Krabill made a motion to adopt the first two paragraphs of the furlough plan that Mr. 
Ferrell wrote.  The plan is as follows:  
 
“As our office works 36 hours a week instead of 40 hours we must have a plan that deals 
with how our office operates.”  
 
“Our office will close every Friday each employee will take 4 hours per week furlough time 
plus 3 hours of comp time per week.  This will total 8 hours furlough time plus 6 hours of 
Comp time in each pay period.  We will start with our next pay period with 2 pays in June, 
2 pays in July, 2 pays in August and 2 pays in Sept.  This will total 8 pay periods for a total 
of 64 furlough hours towards the total of 72 mandated hours.  After the fall election cycle is 
over 8 hours will remain that must be met.  We will then close 2 Fridays in Dec. to complete 
our hours.  This process will also use 60 hours of acquired comp time.”  
 
Mr. Monaghan seconded the motion.  Motion carried.  
 
Roll Call:       (D) Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman                         Yes 
(D) William J. Monaghan, Member  Yes 
                        (R) Nicholas J. Smith, Member                          Yes 
                        (R) Jeffrey N. Krabill, Member              Yes 
 
The next item on the agenda was to approve the minutes from the last board meetings.  
Motion to approve the previous minutes was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
 
Mr. Ferrell stated that next the board would review the thank you letters to be sent out to 
the poll workers.  Ms. James, deputy director, passed out copies of the letters that would be 
sent to the precinct support people, and stated that the poll workers would be getting 
similar letters.  The board members took a few moments to read over the letters.  Motion to 
approve the thank you letters was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.   
 
The next item on the agenda was the payment of Ohio Association of Election Officials 
dues, or OAEO.  Ms. Salyers, director, stated that counties needed to pay the dues in order 
to attend the conference that the OAEO puts on every year.  Only one county, Morgan 
County, does not pay the dues.  Ms. Salyers also stated that she looked through past 
ledgers, and the previous director did pay the dues.  Mr. Krabill stated he believed it was 
important to pay the dues, because the OAEO represents us in the state legislature.  Motion 
to pay the dues was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion passed.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3

The next item on the agenda was to discuss making the website ADA accessible.  Ms. James 
stated that they received a quote from Jose Trejo at Triad, for making the site WCAG 
compliant, which stands for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.  It would cost 450 
dollars, and it would make the website accessible for people who are blind or visually 
impaired.  It would also allow the website to be periodically tested for other accessibility 
issues.  If other accessibility issues were found, Triad would come up with a plan of action 
to help address those.  Of the 68 counties in Ohio that use Triad, 42 have the basic website 
service, and of those 42, 32 are WCAG compliant.  Motion to go ahead with making the 
website accessible was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Next, Ms. James stated that Mr. Trejo had recommended an additional two days of 
training for the office in order to learn about tasks that need to get done before the election.  
The vast majority of pre-election tasks last time were done by the previous director and 
deputy director, and they took that knowledge with them.  Ms. James stated that the office 
was in agreement that Mr. Trejo was a good trainer and that they could benefit from this 
knowledge, especially since it is such an important election coming up.  Mr. Krabill asked 
how much it would cost.  Ms. Salyers stated that she didn’t have an exact number, but that 
we would have to pay for his travel and overnight stay, and that it would probably cost 
about 2,000 dollars a day.  Mr. Smith stated that that we should talk with the auditor’s 
office first, to see where we are with our budget, before making any decisions about 
training.  The other board members agreed.  
 
The board members then discussed the next meeting schedule.  The meeting was scheduled 
for 8 a.m., but the board decided to move it to 9 a.m.  They also decided to move all future 
8 a.m. board meetings to 9 a.m.  Ms. James stated that they would update the website to 
reflect the new times.   
 
Next, Ms. Salyers stated that the bills needed to be paid.  Motion to pay the bills was made 
by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Krabill.  Motion carried.   
 
Ms. Salyers then stated she wanted to bring to the board’s attention some old ballots that 
were recently found.  Some of the ballots date back to the 1860s, and they are falling apart 
in very old books.  Ms. Salyers stated that she contacted the Secretary of State’s office, and 
they informed her that the ballots belong to our county.  Ms. Salyers and Ms. Link, clerk, 
got the ballots out so that the board members could take a few minutes to look at them.  
Mr. Krabill stated that he spoke with the commissioners.  The ballots belong to the 
commissioners, and they want them to be preserved.  Mr. Krabill also stated that he spoke 
with the Sandusky Library about getting the ballots preserved, and that they might get the 
Hayes Museum involved.  
 
After looking at the old ballots, the board discussed getting back to normal hours after 
being on “covid time” for several weeks.  Motion to go back to normal office hours starting 
Monday, June 8 was made by Mr. Krabill, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  Motion carried.  
 
Next, Mr. Krabill made a motion for the office to do whatever it needs to do in order to get 
the old ballots preserved.  Mr. Smith seconded the motion.  Motion carried.   
 
At this point in the meeting, it was time for board staff to conduct the audit.  Motion to go 
into recess while the audit took place was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Monaghan.  
Motion carried.  Board went into recess at 10:00 a.m.  Ms. Salyers, Ms. James, and Ms. 
Link conducted the audit in the other conference room, with Mr. Ferrell and Ms. Grubbe 
present.   
 
Later, motion to go back into regular session was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.  Board returned to regular session at 1:00 p.m.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3

Ms. James stated that for the audit, they hand-counted votes from the precincts Sandusky 
G, Kelleys Island, Milan Township 1, and Perkins Township 1.  The races that were 
audited were Democratic Delegate at Large, the county commissioner race between Pat 
Shenigo and Julie Farrar, and the Erie Metroparks levy.  Ms. James stated that all the 
numbers were perfect, and that they matched the numbers from the ES&S scanners 
exactly.  Motion to accept the results of the audit was made by Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. 
Monaghan.  Motion carried.   
 
Then, Ms. Salyers went over the cost of the last election.  She gave the board members a 
print-out of the various costs, and they took a few minutes to go over it.   
 
Next, Ms. Grubbe stated that she had a few questions before the meeting adjourned.  She 
asked if there was going to be an August special election in Erie County, and the staff 
informed her no.  She also asked if there was going to be another dropbox for the next 
election.  Mr. Ferrell stated no; that we would just have the one dropbox in the foyer of the 
building.  Ms. Grubbe then asked if the office had received absentee ballot applications for 
November and if they had entered them in the system yet.  Ms. Salyers stated that we had 
been getting applications, but that we were not able to enter them in the system, because 
Triad needed to update the system to reflect the next election.  Once Triad does that, then 
we will be able to enter applications for November.   
 
Ms. Grubbe then had some concerns about two voters who had to vote provisionally in this 
past election.  They were the same two voters that she mentioned during the May 15 
meeting.  She was concerned because when those voters look up their names on the website, 
it doesn’t say that they were sent provisional ballots.  Board staff again stated that all 
provisional voters are given a 12-H form, which states that they can call a number to check 
on the status of their provisional ballot. 
 
Ms. Grubbe’s last question was regarding Libby Grant’s name on the website being listed 
as a clerk.  Ms. Grubbe asked if Ms. Grant had started yet.  Ms. Salyers stated no, because 
we had to wait for the results of her physical, drug test, and background check to come 
back.  Mr. Ferrell suggested taking Ms. Grant’s name off the website until she officially 
started.  Mr. Monaghan and Mr. Smith, though, suggested leaving it on.  In the end, the 
board decided to keep Ms. Grant’s name on the website.  
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Monaghan, seconded by Mr. Smith.  Motion carried.  
Board adjourned at 1:10 p.m.     
 
 
 
Lori J. Salyers, Director 
 
Attest: 
 
__________________________________________  
Thomas M. Ferrell, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

